<h2>Chapter One: <br/> Mr. Morgan Meets Tragedy</h2>

<p>The Burry Inlet, on the south coast of Wales,
looks its best from the sea. At least so thought
Mr. Morgan as he sat in the sternsheets of his boat,
a fishing-line between his fingers, while his son, Evan,
pulled lazily over the still water.</p>

<p>In truth, the prospect on this pleasant autumn
evening would have pleased a man less biased by pride
of fatherland than Mr. Morgan. The Inlet at full
tide forms a wide sheet of water, penetrating in an
easterly direction some ten miles into the land, with
the county of Carmarthen to the north and the
Gower Peninsula to the south. The shores are flat,
but rounded hills rise inland which merge to form an
undulating horizon of high ground. Here and
there along the coast are sand-dunes, whose grays
and yellows show up in contrast to the greens of the
grasslands and the woods beyond.</p>

<p>To the southeast, over by Salthouse Point and
Penclawdd, Mr. Morgan could see every detail of
house and sand-dune, tree and meadow, lit up with
a shining radiance, but the northwest hills behind
Burry Port were black and solid against the setting
sun. Immediately north lay Llanelly, with its dingy
colored buildings, its numberless chimneys, and the
masts and funnels of the steamers in its harbor.</p>

<p>It was a perfect evening in late September, the
close of a perfect day. Not a cloud appeared in the
sky and scarcely a ripple stirred the surface of the
sea. The air was warm and balmy, and all nature
seemed drowsing in languorous content. Save for
the muffled noise of the Llanelly mills, borne over
the water, and the slow, rhythmic creak of the oars,
no sound disturbed the sleepy quiet.</p>

<p>Mr. Morgan was a small, clean-shaven man in a
worn and baggy Norfolk suit which was the bane
of Mrs. Morgan’s existence, but in which the soul
of her lord and master delighted as an emblem of
freedom from the servitude of the office. He leaned
back in the sternsheets, gazing out dreamily on the
broad sweep of the Inlet and the lengthening
shadows ashore. At times his eyes and thoughts
turned to his son, Evan, the fourteen-year-old boy
who was rowing. A good boy, thought Mr.
Morgan, and big for his age. Though he had been
at school for nearly three years, he was still his
father’s best pal. As Mr. Morgan thought of the
relations between some of his friends and their sons,
he felt a wave of profound thankfulness sweep
over him.</p>

<p>Presently the boy stopped rowing.</p>

<p>“Say, dad, we’ve not had our usual luck to-day,”
he remarked, glancing disgustedly at the two tiny
mackerel which represented their afternoon’s sport.</p>

<p>Mr. Morgan roused himself.</p>

<p>“No, old man, those aren’t much to boast about.
And I’m afraid we shall have to go in now. The
tide’s beginning to run and I expect we could both
do with a bit of supper. Let’s change places and
you have a go at the lines while I pull in.”</p>

<p>To anyone attempting navigation in the Burry
Inlet the tides are a factor of the first importance.
With a rise and fall at top springs of something like
twenty-five feet, the placid estuary of high water
becomes a little later a place of fierce currents and
swirling eddies. The Inlet is shallow also. At low
tide by far the greater portion of its area is
uncovered and this, by confining the rushing waters to
narrow channels, still further increases their speed.
As the tide falls the great Llanrhidian Sands appear,
stretching out northward from the Gower Peninsula,
while an estuary nearly four miles wide contracts to
a river racing between mud banks five hundred yards
apart.</p>

<p>Mr. Morgan took the oars, and heading the boat
for the northern coast, began to pull slowly
shoreward. He was the manager of a large tin-plate
works at Burry Port and lived on the outskirts of
the little town. Usually a hard worker, he had
taken advantage of a slack afternoon to make a last
fishing excursion with his son before the latter’s
return to school. The two had left Burry Port on a
flowing tide and had drifted up the inlet to above
Llanelly. Now the tide was ebbing and they were
being carried swiftly down again. Mr. Morgan
reckoned that by the time they were opposite Burry
Port they should be far enough inshore to make the
harbor.</p>

<p>Gradually the long line of the Llanelly houses and
chimneys slipped by. Evan had clambered aft and
at intervals he felt with the hand of an expert the
weighted lines which were trailing astern. He
frowned as he glanced again at the two mackerel.
He had had a good many fishing trips with his
father during the holidays, and never before had
they had such a miserable catch. How he wished he
could have a couple of good bites before they had
to give up!</p>

<p>The thought had scarcely passed through his
mind when the line he was holding tightened
suddenly and began to run out through his fingers. At
the same moment the next line, which was made fast
round the after thwart, also grew taut, strained for
a second, then with a jerk slackened and lay dead.
Evan leaped to his feet and screamed out in
excitement:</p>

<p>“Hold, daddy, hold! Back water quick! I’ve
got something big!”</p>

<p>The line continued to run out until Mr. Morgan,
by rowing against the tide, brought the boat
relatively to a standstill. Then the line stopped as if
anchored to something below, twitching indeed from
the current, but not giving the thrilling chucks and
snatches for which the boy was hoping.</p>

<p>“Oh, blow!” he cried, disgustedly. “It’s not a
fish. We’ve got a stone or some seaweed. See, this
one caught it, too.”</p>

<p>He dropped the line he was holding and pulled
in the other. Its hooks were missing.</p>

<p>“See,” he repeated. “What did I tell you? We
shall probably lose the hooks of this one, too. It’s
caught fast.”</p>

<p>“Steady, old man. Take the oars and let me
feel it.”</p>

<p>Mr. Morgan moved into the stern and pulled the
resisting line, but without effect.</p>

<p>“Rather curious this,” he said. “All this stretch
is sand. I once saw it uncovered at very low
springs. Keep rowing till I feel round the thing
with the grappling and see if I can find out what
it is.”</p>

<p>Evan passed the small three-pronged anchor aft
and his father let it down beside the line. Soon
it touched bottom.</p>

<p>“About three and a half fathoms—say twenty
feet,” Mr. Morgan remarked. “Keep her steady
while I feel about.”</p>

<p>He raised the grappling and, moving it a few
inches to one side, lowered it again. Four times
it went down to the same depth; on the fifth trial it
stopped three feet short.</p>

<p>“By Jove!” he exclaimed, “there’s something
there right enough.” He danced the grappling up
and down. “And it’s certainly not seaweed.
Treasure trove, Evan, eh?”</p>

<p>“Try round a bit and see how big it is,” Evan
suggested, now thoroughly interested.</p>

<p>Mr. Morgan “tried round.” Had he been by
himself he would have dismissed the incident with
a muttered imprecation at the loss of his hooks.
But for the sake of the boy he wished to make it
as much of an adventure as possible.</p>

<p>“Curious,” he therefore commented again. “I’m
afraid we shall not be able to save our hooks.
But let’s take bearings so that we may be able to
ask about it ashore.” He looked round. “See,
there’s a good nor’west bearing. That signal post
on the railway is just in line with the west gable of
the large white house on the hill. See it? Now for
a cross bearing. Suppose we take that tall mill
chimney, the tallest of that bunch. It’s just in line
with the pier-head beacon. What about those?”</p>

<p>“Fine, I think. What can the thing be, dad?”</p>

<p>“I don’t know. Perhaps something drifted in
from a wreck. We’ll ask Coastguard Manners.
Now I’ll pull in the grappling, and then the line,
and if the hooks go I can’t help it.”</p>

<p>The little anchor had been lying on the bottom
while they talked. Mr. Morgan now seized the
rope and began to pull. But he had not drawn in
more than two feet when it tightened and remained
immovable.</p>

<p>“By Jove! The grappling’s caught now!” he
exclaimed. “A nuisance, that. We don’t want to
lose our grappling.”</p>

<p>“Let’s pull up. Perhaps it will come clear.”</p>

<p>Evan put down the oars and joined his father
in the stern. Both pulled steadily with all their
strength. For a time nothing happened, then
suddenly the rope began to yield. It did not come away
clear, but gave slowly as if the object to which it
was attached was lifting also.</p>

<p>“By Jove!” Mr. Morgan exclaimed again. “We
shall get our hooks, after all! The whole thing’s
coming up.”</p>

<p>Slowly the rope came in foot after foot. The
object, whatever it was, was heavy, and it was all
they could do to raise it. Mr. Morgan pulled in
sudden heaves, while Evan took a turn with the
line round a thwart, so as to hold the weight while
his father rested.</p>

<p>At last the end of the rope was reached and the
shank of the grappling appeared. Then dimly
beneath the surface Mr. Morgan was able to see
the object hooked. It was a large wooden packing
case or crate.</p>

<p>Round the sides were cross-pieces, holding the
sheeting boards in place. Two of the sharp flukes
of the grappling had caught beneath one of these,
and of course, the greater the pull on them, the
more firmly they became fixed.</p>

<p>To raise the crate while submerged and displacing
its own volume of water had been just possible.
To lift it aboard was out of the question. For a
time the two considered the problem of getting it
ashore, then Mr. Morgan said:</p>

<p>“I’ll tell you what we’ll do. We’ll make the rope
fast and row in with the crate hanging to our
stern. Then we’ll beach it on the lifeboat slip, and
when the tide falls it will be left high and dry. We
can examine it then and get our hooks.”</p>

<p>Evan approving of the plan, they proceeded to
carry it out. They made the rope fast round the
after thwart, then taking the oars, pulled slowly
inshore. As they drew nearer, the current lessened,
until off Burry Port they were almost in still water.
Slowly they glided past a line of sandhills which
presently gave place first to houses and works and
then to a great deposit of copper slag like a stream
of lava which had overflowed into the sea. Finally
rounding the east mole, they entered Burry Port
harbour.</p>

<p>Having manœuvred the boat over the lifeboat
slip, they cast off the rope, and the crate settled
down in five feet of water. Then with a bight of the
rope they made the boat fast.</p>

<p>“Now for that supper,” Mr. Morgan suggested.
“By the time we’ve had it our treasure trove will
be high and dry and we can come down and see
what it is.”</p>

<p>An hour later father and son were retracing their
steps to the harbour. Mr. Morgan looked businesslike
with a hammer, a cold chisel, and a large
electric torch. It was still a lovely evening, but in
a few minutes it would be dark.</p>

<p>As Mr. Morgan had foretold, the crate was high
and dry, and they examined it with interest in the
light of the torch. It was a strongly made wooden
box about three feet by two by two. All round at
top and bottom were strengthening cross-pieces, and
it was beneath the upper of these that the two
flukes of the grappling had caught.</p>

<p>“Well and truly hooked,” Mr. Morgan remarked.
“We must have drifted across the thing, and when
we pulled up the grappling it slid up the side till it
caught the cross-piece. It’s a good job for us, for
now we shall get our grappling and our hooks as
well.”</p>

<p>Evan fidgetted impatiently.</p>

<p>“Don’t mind about them, dad; we can unfasten
them later. Open the box. I want to see what’s
in it.”</p>

<p>Mr. Morgan put his cold chisel to the joint of
the lid and began to hammer.</p>

<p>“Strictly speaking, we shouldn’t do this,” he
declared as he worked. “We should have handed
the thing over to Manners. It’s a job for the
coast-guards. However, here goes!”</p>

<p>The crate was strongly made, and though Mr.
Morgan was a good amateur carpenter, it took him
several minutes to open it. But at last one of the
top boards was prized up. Instantly both became
conscious of a heavy, nauseating smell.</p>

<p>“A case of South American meat or something
gone west,” Mr. Morgan commented. “I don’t
know that I’m so keen on going on with this job.
Perhaps we can see what it is without opening it up
further.”</p>

<p>Holding his breath, he put his eye to the slit and
shone in a beam from the electric torch. Then
with a sharp intaking of the breath he rose.</p>

<p>“It’s a disgusting smell,” he said in rather shaky
tones. “Let’s go round and ask Manners to finish
the job.”</p>

<p>“Let me look in, dad.”</p>

<p>“Right, old man. But come round with me first to
see Manners.”</p>

<p>With some difficulty Mr. Morgan drew his son
away. He was feeling sick and shaken. For
beneath that well-fitting lid and sticking up out of
the water which still remained in the crate was a
gruesome and terrible object—the bent head and
crouching body of a man dressed in underclothes
only and in an advanced state of decomposition!</p>

<p>It was all Mr. Morgan could do to crush down
the horror which possessed him and to pretend to
the boy that nothing was amiss. Evan must not be
allowed to see that ghastly sight! It would haunt
his young mind for weeks. Mr. Morgan led the
way round the harbour, across the dock gates and
towards the road leading to the town.</p>

<p>“But aren’t we going to Manners?” Evan queried,
hanging back.</p>

<p>“Not to-night, if you don’t mind, old chap. That
smell has made me rather sick. We can go down
in the morning. The tide should be right after
breakfast.”</p>

<p>Evan demurred, suggesting that he alone should
interview the coastguard. But he was what Mr.
Morgan called “biddable,” and when his father
showed that he was in earnest he allowed the subject
to drop.</p>

<p>In due course they reached home. Discreet
suggestion having resulted in Evan’s settling down
with his meccano, Mr. Morgan felt himself at
liberty. He explained casually that he wanted to
drop into the club for an hour and left the house.
In ten minutes he was at the police station.</p>

<p>“I’ve made a discovery this evening, Sergeant,
which I’m afraid points to something pretty seriously
wrong,” he explained, and he told the officer in
charge about the hooking of the crate. “I didn’t
want my son to see the body—he’s rather young
for that sort of thing—so we went home without my
saying anything about it. But I’ve come back now
to report to you. I suppose you, and not Manners,
will deal with it?”</p>

<p>Sergeant Nield bore a good reputation in Burry
Port as an efficient and obliging officer, as well as
a man of some reading and culture. He listened to
Mr. Morgan’s recital with close attention and
quietly took charge.</p>

<p>“Manners would deal with it at first, Mr.
Morgan,” he answered, “but he would hand it over to us
when he saw what the object was. I think we’ll
call for him on the way down, and that will put the
thing in order. Can you come down now, sir?”</p>

<p>“Certainly. That’s what I intended.”</p>

<p>“Then we’ll get away at once. Just let me get
my bicycle lamp.” He turned to a constable.
“Williames, you and Smith get another light and take
the handcart down to the lifeboat slip. Watson,
take charge in my absence. Now, Mr. Morgan, if
you are ready.”</p>

<p>It was quite dark as the two men turned towards
the harbour. Later there would be a quarter-moon,
but it had not yet risen. The night was calm and
fine, but a little sharpness was creeping into the
air. Except for the occasional rush of a motor
passing on the road and sounds of shunting from
the docks, everything was very still.</p>

<p>“Just where did you say you found the crate,
Mr. Morgan?” the sergeant asked.</p>

<p>“Off Llanelly; off the sea end of the breakwater
and on the far side of the channel.”</p>

<p>“The Gower side? Far from the channel?”</p>

<p>“The Gower side, yes. But not far from the
channel. I should say just on the very edge.”</p>

<p>“You didn’t mark the place?”</p>

<p>“Not with a buoy. I hadn’t one, and if I had I
should not have thought it worth while. But I took
bearings. I could find the place within a few feet.”</p>

<p>“I suppose you’ve no idea as to how the crate
might have got there?”</p>

<p>“Not the slightest. I have been wondering that
ever since I learned what was in it. What do you
think?”</p>

<p>“I don’t know, sir, unless it has been dropped off
a steamer or been washed into the Inlet from some
wreck. We’ll get it to the station and examine it,
and maybe we shall find where it came from. If
you wait here a second I’ll get hold of Manners.”</p>

<p>They had reached the coastguard’s house and
the sergeant ran up to the door. In a few seconds
he returned with a stout, elderly man who gave Mr.
Morgan a civil good evening.</p>

<p>“It’s your job, of course, Tom,” the sergeant was
saying, “but it’ll be ours so soon that we may as
well go down together. Perhaps, sir, you’ll tell
Manners about how you found the crate and brought
it in?”</p>

<p>By the time Mr. Morgan had finished his story
for the second time they had reached the boat slip.
The sergeant and Manners peeped into the crate
in turn.</p>

<p>“Yes, sir, it’s just what you said,” the former
remarked. “It’s a man, by the look of him, and he’s
been dead some time. I think we’ll have the whole
affair up to the station before we open any more
of it. What do you say, Tom?”</p>

<p>“Right you are, Sergeant, I’ll go with you. I
shall ’ave to put in a report about the thing, but I
can get my information at the station as well as
’ere. You’ll be coming along, Mr. Morgan?”</p>

<p>“If you please, sir,” the sergeant interjected. “I
have to get a statement from you, too.”</p>

<p>“Of course I’ll go,” Mr. Morgan assured them.
“I’ll see the thing through now.”</p>

<p>The constables having arrived with the handcart,
it was wheeled down the slip and all five men
got round the crate and with some difficulty lifted
it on.</p>

<p>“By Jove!” Mr. Morgan exclaimed. “That’s
some weight. Surely there must be something more
than a body in it?”</p>

<p>“It’s certainly heavy, but it’s a very solid crate.
We shall see when we get it to the station.”</p>

<p>With a good deal of pushing and shoving the
handcart was got up the slip, and the little party
moved off along the mole and across the sidings to
the town. On reaching the police station the crate
was wheeled into a small courtyard in the rear, and
Nield invited the others into his office.</p>

<p>“On second thoughts, Mr. Morgan,” he
explained, “I’ll not unpack the crate until I have
reported to the superintendent and got hold of a
doctor. Meantime, sir, I’d be glad to get your
statement in writing.”</p>

<p>For the third time Mr. Morgan told his story.
The sergeant took it down, read over what he had
written, and got the other to sign it.</p>

<p>“That will do, sir, for to-night. You will, of
course, be required at the inquest to-morrow or
next day.”</p>

<p>“I’ll be there, all right.”</p>

<p>“Then about your son, sir? Has he anything to
say that might be of use?”</p>

<p>Mr. Morgan looked distressed.</p>

<p>“Nothing, Sergeant, more than I can tell you
myself. I hope you won’t have to call the boy.
He’s going back to school to-morrow.”</p>

<p>“That’s all right; he’ll not be wanted. And
now, sir, I shouldn’t say more about the affair than
you can help. Just keep the discovery of the body
quiet and content yourself with the story of finding
the crate.”</p>

<p>Mr. Morgan promised and the sergeant wished
him good night.</p>

<p>His visitor gone, Sergeant Nield handed a carbon
of the statement to Manners, promising to let him
know how the affair progressed. The coastguard
being got rid of in his turn, Nield telephoned the
news to Superintendent Griffiths at Llanelly. The
superintendent was suitably impressed and in his
turn rang up Major Lloyd, the chief constable at
Llandilo. Finally the latter gave instructions for
Nield to arrange a meeting at the police station for
nine o’clock on the following morning. Both the
superintendent and the chief constable would motor
over, and the local police doctor was to be in
attendance. The body would then be removed from
the crate and the necessary examination made.
Meanwhile nothing was to be touched.</p>

<p>Glad to be relieved from the sole responsibility,
the sergeant made his arrangements and at the hour
named a little group entered the courtyard of the
police station. In addition to the chief constable
and superintendent, the sergeant and two of the
latter’s men, there were present two doctors—Dr.
Crowth, the local police surgeon, and Dr.
Wilbraham, a friend of Major Lloyd’s, whom the latter
had brought with him.</p>

<p>After some preliminary remarks the terrible
business of getting the remains from the crate was
undertaken. Such work would have been distressing
at all times, but in the present case two facts
made it almost unbearable. In the first place, the
man had been dead for a considerable time,
estimated by the doctors as from five to six weeks, and
in the second his face had been appallingly
maltreated. Indeed, it might be said to be nonexistent,
so brutally had it been battered in. All the features
were destroyed and only an awful pulp remained.</p>

<p>However, the work had to be done, and presently
the body was lying on a table which had been placed
for the purpose in an outhouse. It was dressed in
underclothes only—shirt, vest, drawers and socks.
The suit, collar, tie, and shoes had been removed.
An examination showed that none of the garments
bore initials.</p>

<p>Nor were there any helpful marks on the crate.
There were tacks where a label had been attached,
but the label had been torn off. A round steel bar
of three or four stone weight had also been put in,
evidently to ensure the crate sinking.</p>

<p>The most careful examination revealed no clue
to the man’s identity. Who he was and why he
had been murdered were as insoluble problems as
how the crate came to be where it was found.</p>

<p>For over an hour the little party discussed the
matter, and then the chief constable came to a
decision.</p>

<p>“I don’t believe it’s a local case,” he announced.
“That crate must in some way have come from a
ship. I don’t see how it could have been got there
from the shore. And if it’s not a local case, I think
we’ll consider it not our business. We’ll call in
Scotland Yard. Let them have the trouble of it.
I’ll ring up the Home Office now and we’ll have a
man here this evening. To-morrow will be time
enough for the inquest, and the C. I. D. man will
be here and can ask what questions he likes.”</p>

<p>Thus it came to pass that Inspector Joseph French
on that same afternoon travelled westwards by the
1.55 <small>P.M.</small> luncheon car express from Paddington.</p>



<h2>Chapter Two: Inspector French Gets Busy</h2>

<p>Dusk was already falling when a short, rather
stout man with keen blue eyes from which a twinkle
never seemed far removed, alighted from the
London train at Burry Port and made his way to
Sergeant Nield, who was standing near the exit,
scrutinising the departing travellers.</p>

<p>“My name is French,” the stranger announced—“Inspector
French of the C. I. D. I think you are
expecting me?”</p>

<p>“That’s right, sir. We had a phone from
headquarters that you were coming on this train. We’ve
been having trouble, as you’ve heard.”</p>

<p>“I don’t often take a trip like this without finding
trouble at the end of it. We’re like yourself,
Sergeant—we have to go out to look for it. But we
don’t often have to look for it in such fine country as
this. I’ve enjoyed my journey.”</p>

<p>“The country’s right enough if you’re fond of
coal,” Nield rejoined, with some bitterness. “But
now; Mr. French, what would you like to do? I
expect you’d rather get fixed up at a hotel and have
some dinner before anything else? I think the Bush
Arms is the most comfortable.”</p>

<p>“I had tea a little while ago. If it’s the same
to you, Sergeant, I’d rather see what I can before
the light goes. I’ll give my bag to the porter
and he can fix me up a room. Then I hope you’ll
come back and dine with me and we can have a talk
over our common trouble.”</p>

<p>The sergeant accepted with alacrity. He had felt
somewhat aggrieved at the calling in of a stranger
from London, believing it to be a reflection on his
own ability to handle the case. But this cheery,
good-humoured-looking man was very different from
the type of person he was expecting. This inspector
did not at all appear to have come down to put the
local men in their places and show them what fools
they were. Rather he seemed to consider Nield an
honoured colleague in a difficult job.</p>

<p>But though the sergeant did not know it, this
was French’s way. He was an enthusiastic believer
in the theory that with ninety-nine persons out of
a hundred you can lead better than you can drive.
He therefore made it an essential of his method to
be pleasant and friendly to those with whom he came
in contact, and many a time he had found that it
had brought the very hint that he required from
persons who at first had given him only glum looks
and tight lips.</p>

<p>“I should like to see the body and the crate and
if possible have a walk round the place,” French
went on. “Then I shall understand more clearly
what you have to tell me. Is the inquest over?”</p>

<p>“No. It is fixed for eleven o’clock to-morrow.
The chief constable thought you would like to be
present.”</p>

<p>“Very kind of him. I should. I gathered that
the man had been dead for some time?”</p>

<p>“Between five and six weeks, the doctors said.
Two doctors saw the body—our local man, Doctor
Crowth, and a friend of the chief constable’s,
Doctor Wilbraham. They were agreed about the
time.”</p>

<p>“Did they say the cause of death?”</p>

<p>“No, they didn’t, but there can’t be much doubt
about that. The whole face and head is battered in.
It’s not a nice sight, I can tell you.”</p>

<p>“I don’t expect so. Your report said that the
crate was found by a fisherman?”</p>

<p>“An amateur fisherman, yes,” and Nield repeated
Mr. Morgan’s story.</p>

<p>“That’s just the lucky way things happen, isn’t
it?” French exclaimed. “A man commits a crime
and he takes all kinds of precautions to hide it,
and then some utterly unexpected coincidence
happens—who could have foreseen a fisherman hooking
the crate—and he is down and out. Lucky for us,
and for society, too. But I’ve seen it again and
again. I’ve seen things happen that a writer
couldn’t put into a book, because nobody would
believe them possible, and I’m sure so have you.
There’s nothing in this world stranger than the
truth.”</p>

<p>The sergeant agreed, but without enthusiasm.
In his experience it was the ordinary and obvious
thing that happened. He didn’t believe in coincidences.
After all, it wasn’t such a coincidence that
a fisherman who lowered a line on the site of the
crate should catch his hooks in it. The crate was
in the area over which this man fished. There was
nothing wonderful about it.</p>

<p>But a further discussion of the point was
prevented by their arrival at the police station. They
passed to the outhouse containing the body and
French forthwith began his examination.</p>

<p>The remains were those of a man of slightly
over medium height, of fairly strong build, and who
had seemingly been in good health before death.
The face had been terribly mishandled. It was
battered in until the features were entirely
obliterated. The ears, even, were torn and bruised and
shapeless. The skull was evidently broken at the
forehead, so, as the sergeant had said, there was
here an injury amply sufficient to account for death.
It was evident also that a post-mortem had been
made. Altogether French had seldom seen so
horrible a spectacle.</p>

<p>But his professional instincts were gratified by a
discovery which he hoped might assist in the
identification of the remains. On the back of the left
arm near the shoulder was a small birthmark of a
distinctive triangular shape. Of this he made a
dimensioned sketch, having first carefully examined
it and assured himself it was genuine.</p>

<p>But beyond these general observations he did not
spend much time over the body. Having noted
that the fingers were too much decomposed to enable
prints to be taken, he turned his attention to the
clothes, believing that all the further available
information as to the remains would be contained in
the medical report.</p>

<p>Minutely he examined the underclothes, noting
their size and quality and pattern, searching for
laundry marks or initials or for mendings or darns.
But except that the toe of the left sock had been
darned with wool of too light a shade, there was
nothing to distinguish the garments from others of
the same kind. Though he did not expect to get
help from the clothes, French in his systematic way
entered a detailed description of them in his
notebook. Then he turned to the crate.</p>

<p>It measured two feet three inches by two feet four
and was three feet long. Made of spruce an inch
thick, it was strongly put together and clamped with
iron corner pieces. The boards were tongued and
grooved, and French thought that under ordinary
conditions it should be watertight. He examined its
whole surface, but here again he had no luck.
Though there were a few bloodstains inside, no label
or brand or identifying mark showed anywhere.
Moreover, there was nothing in its shape or size to
call for comment. The murderer might have
obtained it from a hundred sources and French did
not see any way in which it could be traced.</p>

<p>That it had been labelled at one time was evident.
The heads of eight tacks formed a parallelogram
which clearly represented the position of a card.
It also appeared to have borne attachments of some
heavier type, as there were seven nail holes of about
an eighth of an inch in diameter at each of two
opposite corners. Whatever these fittings were,
they had been removed and the nails withdrawn.</p>

<p>“How long would you say this had been in the
water?” French asked, running his fingers over the
sodden wood.</p>

<p>“I asked Manners, our coastguard, that
question,” the sergeant answered. “He said not very
long. You see, there are no shells nor seaweed
attaching to it. He thought about the time the
doctors mentioned, say between five and six weeks.”</p>

<p>The bar was a bit of old two-inch shafting, some
fourteen inches long, and was much rusted from its
immersion. It had evidently been put in as a weight
to ensure the sinking of the crate. Unfortunately,
it offered no better clue to the sender than the
crate itself.</p>

<p>French added these points to his notes and again
addressed the sergeant.</p>

<p>“Have you a good photographer in the town?”</p>

<p>“Why, yes, pretty good.”</p>

<p>“Then I wish you’d send for him. I want some
photographs of the body and they had better be
done first thing in the morning.”</p>

<p>When the photographer had arrived and had
received his instructions French went on: “That,
Sergeant, seems to be all we can do now. It’s too
dark to walk round to-night. Suppose we get along
to the hotel and see about that dinner?”</p>

<p>During a leisurely meal in the private room
French had engaged they conversed on general
topics, but later over a couple of cigars they
resumed their discussion of the tragedy. The sergeant
repeated in detail all that he knew of the matter,
but he was neither able to suggest clues upon which
to work, nor yet to form a theory as to what had
really happened.</p>

<p>“It’s only just nine o’clock,” French said when
the subject showed signs of exhaustion. “I think
I’ll go round and have a word with this Mr.
Morgan, and then perhaps we could see the
doctor—Crowth, you said his name was? Will you come
along?”</p>

<p>Mr. Morgan, evidently thrilled by his visitor’s
identity, repeated his story still another time. French
had brought from London a large-scale ordnance
map of the district, and on it he got Mr. Morgan
to mark the bearings he had taken and so located
the place the crate had lain. This was all the fresh
information French could obtain, and soon he and
Nield wished the manager good night and went on
to the doctor’s.</p>

<p>Dr. Crowth was a bluff, middle-aged man with
a hearty manner and a kindly expression. He was
offhand in his greeting and plunged at once into
his subject.</p>

<p>“Yes,” he said in answer to French’s question,
“we held a post-mortem, Doctor Wilbraham and I,
and we found the cause of death. Those injuries to
the face and forehead were all inflicted after death.
They were sufficient to cause death, but they did not
do so. The cause of death was a heavy blow on
the back of the head with some soft, yielding
instrument. The skull was fractured, but the skin,
though contused, was unbroken. Something like a
sandbag was probably used. The man was struck
first and killed, and then his features were destroyed
with some heavy implement such as a hammer.”</p>

<p>“That’s suggestive, isn’t it?” French commented.</p>

<p>“You mean that the features were obliterated
after death to conceal the man’s identity?”</p>

<p>“No, I didn’t mean that, though of course it is
true. What I meant was that the man was murdered
in some place where blood would have been noticed,
had it fallen. He was killed, not with a sharp-edged
instrument, though one was available, but
with a blunt one, lest bleeding should have ensued.
Then when death had occurred the sharp-edged
instrument was used and the face disfigured. I am
right about the bleeding, am I not?”</p>

<p>“Oh, yes. A dead body does not bleed, or at
least not much. But I do not say that you could
inflict all those injuries without leaving some
bloodstains.”</p>

<p>“No doubt, but still I think my deduction holds.
There were traces of blood in the crate, but only
slight. What age was the man, do you think,
Doctor?”</p>

<p>“Impossible to say exactly, but probably
middle-aged: thirty-five to fifty-five.”</p>

<p>“Any physical peculiarities?”</p>

<p>“I had better show you my report. It will give
you all I know. In fact, you can keep this copy.”</p>

<p>French ran his eyes over the document, noting
the points which might be valuable. The body was
that of a middle-aged man five feet ten inches high,
fairly broad and well built, and weighing thirteen
stone. The injuries to the head and face were such
that recognition from the features would be
impossible. There was only one physical peculiarity which
might assist identification—a small triangular
birthmark on the back of the left arm.</p>

<p>The report then gave technical details of the
injuries and the condition the body was in when
found, with the conclusion that death had probably
occurred some thirty-five to forty days earlier.
French smiled ruefully when he had finished reading.</p>

<p>“There’s not overmuch to go on, is there?” he
remarked. “I suppose nothing further is likely to
come out at the inquest?”</p>

<p>“Unless some one that we don’t know of comes
forward with information, nothing,” the sergeant
answered. “We have made all the enquiries that
we could think of.”</p>

<p>“As far as I am concerned,” Dr. Crowth
declared, “I don’t see that you have anything to go
on at all. I shouldn’t care for your job, Inspector.
How on earth will you start trying to clear up this
puzzle? To me it seems absolutely insoluble.”</p>

<p>“Cases do seem so at first,” French returned,
“but it’s wonderful how light gradually comes. It is
almost impossible to commit a murder without
leaving a clue, and if you think it over long enough you
usually get it. But this, I admit, is a pretty tough
proposition.”</p>

<p>“Have you ever heard of anything like it before?”</p>

<p>“So far it rather reminds me of a case investigated
several years ago by my old friend Inspector
Burnley—he’s retired now. A cask was sent from
France to London which was found to contain the
body of a young married French woman, and it
turned out that her unfaithful husband had murdered
her. He had in his study at the time a cask in
which a group of statuary which he had just
purchased had arrived, and he disposed of the body by
packing it in the cask and sending it to England.
It might well be that the same thing had happened
in this case: that the murderer had purchased
something which had arrived in this crate and that he
had used the latter to get rid of the body. And
as you can see, Doctor, that at once suggests a line
of enquiry. What firm uses crates of this kind to
despatch their goods and to whom were such crates
sent recently? This is the sort of enquiry which
gets us our results.”</p>

<p>“That is very interesting. All the same, I’m glad
it’s your job and not mine. I remember reading of
that case you mention. The papers were absolutely
full of it at the time. I thought it an extraordinary
affair, almost like a novel.”</p>

<p>“No doubt, but there is this difference between a
novel and real life. In a novel the episodes are
selected and the reader is told those which are
interesting and which get results. In real life we try
perhaps ten or twenty lines which lead nowhere
before we strike the lucky one. And in each line we
make perhaps hundreds of enquiries, whereas the
novel describes one. It’s like any other job, you get
results by pegging away. But it is interesting on the
whole, and it has its compensations. Well, Doctor,
I mustn’t keep you talking all night. I shall see
you at the inquest to-morrow?”</p>

<p>French’s gloomy prognostications were justified
next day when the proceedings in the little
courthouse came to an end. Nothing that was not
already known came out and the coroner adjourned
the enquiry for three weeks to enable the police to
conclude their investigations.</p>

<p>What those investigations were to consist of was
the problem which confronted French when after
lunch he sat down in the deserted smoking room of
the little hotel to think matters out.</p>

<p>In the first place, there was the body. What
lines of enquiry did the body suggest?</p>

<p>One obviously. Some five or six weeks ago a
fairly tall, well-built man of middle age had
disappeared. He might merely have vanished without
explanation, or more probably, circumstances had
been arranged to account for his absence. In the
first case, information should be easily obtainable.
But the second alternative was a different
proposition. If the disappearance had been cleverly
screened it might prove exceedingly difficult to locate.
At all events, enquiries on the matter must represent
the first step.</p>

<p>It was clearly impossible to trace any of the
clothes, with the possible exception of the sock. But
even from the sock French did not think he would
learn anything. It was of a standard pattern and
the darning of socks with wool of not quite the right
shade was too common to be remembered. At the
same time he noted it as a possible line of research.</p>

<p>Next he turned his attention to the crate, and at
once two points struck him.</p>

<p>Could he trace the firm who had made the crate?
Of this he was doubtful; it was not sufficiently
distinctive. There must be thousands of similar
packing cases in existence, and to check up all of them
would be out of the question. Besides, it might not
have been supplied by a firm. The murderer might
have had it specially made or even have made it
himself. Here again, however, French could but
try.</p>

<p>The second point was: How had the crate got to
the bottom of the Burry Inlet? This was a
question that he must solve, and he turned all his
energies towards it.</p>

<p>There were here two possibilities. Either the
crate had been thrown into the water and had sunk
at the place where it was found, or it had gone in
elsewhere and been driven forward by the action of
the sea. He considered these ideas in turn.</p>

<p>To have sunk at the place it was thrown in
postulated a ship or boat passing over the site. From
the map, steamers approaching or leaving Llanelly
must go close to the place, and might cross it. But
French saw that there were grave difficulties in the
theory that the crate had been dropped overboard
from a steamer. It was evident that the whole
object of the crate was to dispose of the body
secretly. The crate, however, could not have been
secretly thrown from a steamer. Whether it were
let go by hand or by a winch, several men would
know about it. Indeed, news of so unusual an
operation would almost certainly spread to the
whole crew, and if the crate were afterwards found,
some one of the hands would be sure to give the
thing away. Further, if the crate were being got
rid of from a steamer it would have been done far
out in deep water and not at the entrance to a port.</p>

<p>For these reasons French thought that the ship
might be ruled out and he turned his attention to the
idea of a rowboat.</p>

<p>But here a similar objection presented itself.
The crate was too big and heavy to be dropped from
a small boat. French tried to visualise the
operation. The crate could only be placed across the
stern; in any other position it would capsize the
boat. Then it would have to be pushed off. This
could not be done by one man; he doubted whether
it could be done by two. But even if it could, these
two added to the weight of the crate would
certainly cause disaster. He did not believe the
operation possible without a large boat and at least three
men, and he felt sure the secret would not have been
entrusted to so many.</p>

<p>It seemed to him, then, that the crate could not
have been thrown in where it was found. How else
could it have got there?</p>

<p>He thought of Mr. Morgan’s suggestion of a
wreck from which it might have been washed up
into the Inlet, but according to the sergeant, there
had been no wreck. Besides, the crate was
undamaged outside, and it was impossible that it could
have been torn out through the broken side of a
ship or washed overboard without leaving some
traces.</p>

<p>French lit a fresh pipe and began to pace the
deserted smoking room. He was exasperated
because he saw that his reasoning must be faulty. All
that he had done was to prove that the crate could
not have reached the place where it was found.</p>

<p>For some minutes he couldn’t see the snag; then
it occurred to him that he had been assuming too
much. He had taken it for granted that the crate
had sunk immediately on falling into the water.
The weights of the crate itself, the body, and the
bar of steel had made him think so. But was he
correct? Would the air the crate contained not
give it buoyancy for a time, until at least some
water had leaked in?</p>

<p>If so, the fact would have a considerable
bearing on his problem. If the crate had been floated
to the place he was halfway to a solution.</p>

<p>Suddenly the possible significance of the fourteen
holes occurred to him. He had supposed they were
nailholes, but now he began to think differently.
Suppose they were placed there to admit the water,
slowly, so that the crate should float for a time and
then sink? Their position was suggestive: they were
at diagonally opposite corners of the crate. That
meant that at least one set must be under water, no
matter in what position the crate was floating. It
also meant that the other set provided a vent for
the escape of the displaced air.</p>

<p>The more French thought over the idea, the more
probable it seemed. The crate had been thrown
into the sea, most likely from the shore and when
the tide was ebbing, and it had floated out into the
Inlet. By the time it had reached the position in
which it was found, enough water had leaked in
to sink it.</p>

<p>He wondered if any confirmatory evidence of the
theory were available. Then an idea struck him,
and walking to the police station, he asked for
Sergeant Nield.</p>

<p>“I want you, Sergeant, to give me a bit of help,”
he began. “First, I want the weights of the crate
and the bar of iron. Can you get them for me?”</p>

<p>“Certainly. We’ve nothing here that would
weigh them, but I’ll send them to the railway station.
You’ll have the weights in half an hour.”</p>

<p>“Good man! Now there is one other thing. Can
you borrow a Molesworth for me?”</p>

<p>“A Molesworth?”</p>

<p>“A Molesworth’s <i>Pocket Book of Engineering
Formulæ</i>. You’ll get it from any engineer or
architect.”</p>

<p>“Yes, I think I can manage that. Anything else?”</p>

<p>“No, Sergeant; that’s all except that before you
send away the crate I want to measure those nail
holes.”</p>

<p>French took a pencil from his pocket and
sharpened it to a long, thin, evenly rounded point. This
he pushed into the nail holes, marking how far it
went in. Then with a pocket rule he measured the
diameter of the pencil, the length of the sharpened
portion, and the distance the latter had entered.
From these dimensions a simple calculation told
him that the holes were all slightly under
one-sixth of an inch in diameter.</p>

<p>The sergeant was an energetic man and before
the half-hour was up he had produced the required
weights and the engineer’s pocket book. French,
returning to the hotel, sat down with the
Molesworth and a few sheets of paper, and began with
some misgivings to bury himself in engineering
calculations.</p>

<p>First he added the weights of the crate, the body,
and the steel bar; they came to 29 stone, or 406
pounds. Then he found that the volume of the
crate was just a trifle over 15 cubic feet. This
latter multiplied by the weight of a cubic foot of
sea water—64 pounds—gave a total of 985 pounds
as the weight of water the crate would displace
if completely submerged. But if the weight of the
crate was 406 pounds and the weight of the water
it displaced was 985 pounds, it followed that not
only would it float, but it would float with a very
considerable buoyancy, represented by the difference
between these two, or 579 pounds. The first part
of his theory was therefore tenable.</p>

<p>But the moment the crate was thrown into the
sea, water would begin to run in through the lower
holes. French wondered if he could calculate how
long it would take to sink.</p>

<p>He was himself rather out of his depth among the
unfamiliar figures and formulæ given on the subject.
The problem was, How long would it take 579
pounds of water to run through seven one-sixth-inch
holes? This, he found, depended on the head, which
he could only guess at approximately one foot. He
worked for a considerable time and at last came to
the conclusion that it would take slightly over an
hour. But that his calculations were correct he
would not like to have sworn.</p>

<p>At all events, these results were extremely
promising and gave him at least a tentative working
theory.</p>

<p>But if the crate had floated from the coast to
where it was found, the question immediately arose:
At what point had it been thrown in?</p>

<p>Here was a question which could only be answered
with the help of local knowledge. French thought
that a discussion with the coastguard might suggest
ideas. Accordingly, he left the hotel and turned
towards the harbour with the intention of looking
up Manners.</p>



<h2>Chapter Three: Experimental Detection</h2>

<p>Tom Manners was hoeing in his little garden
when French hailed him. He was not a native, but
the course of a long career had led him from
Shoreditch, <i lang="la">via</i> the Royal Navy, to Burry Port. In
person he was small, stout, and elderly, but his
movements were still alert and his eyes shone with
intelligence.</p>

<p>“I want to have another chat with you about this
affair,” said French, who had already heard the
other’s statement. “Just walk down to the end of
the pier with me while we talk.”</p>

<p>They strolled down past the stumpy lighthouse
to where they could get a view of the Inlet.</p>

<p>Again it was a perfect afternoon. The sun,
pouring down through a slight haze, put as much warmth
as was possible into the somewhat drab colours
of the landscape, the steel of the water, the varying
browns of the mud and sand, the dingy greys and
slate of the town, the greens of the grass and trees
on the hills beyond. Some four miles away to the
right was the long line of Llanelly, with its chimneys
sticking up irregularly like the teeth of a rather
badly damaged comb. Fifty-three chimneys, French
counted, and he was sure he had not seen anything
like all the town contained. Beyond Llanelly the
coastline showed as a blur in the haze, but opposite,
across the Inlet, lay the great yellow stretch of the
Llanrhidian Sands, rising through grey-green dunes
to the high ground of the Gower Peninsula.</p>

<p>“Let us sit down,” French suggested when he had
assimilated the view. “I have come to the
conclusion that the crate must have been thrown into
the sea at some point along the shore and floated
out to where it was found. It would float, I
estimate, for about an hour, when enough water would
have got in to sink it. Now what I want to know
is, Where along the coast might the crate have been
thrown in, so as to reach the place at which it was
found in an hour?”</p>

<p>Manners nodded but did not reply. French
unrolled his map and went on: “Here is a map of the
district and this is the point at which the crate was
found. Let us take the places in turn. If it had
been thrown in here at Burry Port, would it have
got there in time?”</p>

<p>“It ain’t just so easy to say,” Manners declared,
slowly. “It might if the tide was flowing, and then
again it mightn’t. It might ’ave started ’ere or from
Pembrey—that’s ’alf a mile over there to the west.”</p>

<p>This was not encouraging, but French tried
again.</p>

<p>“Very well,” he said. “Now what about
Llanelly?”</p>

<p>Llanelly, it appeared, was also a doubtful
proposition.</p>

<p>“It’s like this ’ere, Mr. French,” Manners
explained. “It’s all according to ’ow the tide ’appens
to be running. If the tide was flowing and that
there crate was dropped in at Llanelly it would go
further up the Inlet than wot you show on the chart.
An’ if the tide was ebbing it would go further down.
But if the tide was on the turn it might go up or
down and then come back to the place. You see wot
I mean?”</p>

<p>French saw it, and he sighed as he saw also that
it meant that there was practically no part of the
adjacent shores from which the crate might not have
come. Then it occurred to him that both his
question and Manners’ reply had been based on a
misconception.</p>

<p>The murderer’s object was to get rid of the crate.
Would he, therefore, choose a rising or half tide
which might drift it back inshore? Surely not; he
would select one which would take it as far as
possible out to sea. French felt that only ebb tides need
be considered. He turned again to Manners.</p>

<p>“I suppose a good ebb develops some strong
currents in these channels?”</p>

<p>“You may say so, Mr. French. An average of
five knots you may reckon on. A deal faster than
you could walk.”</p>

<p>“Five knots an hour?”</p>

<p>“No, sir. Five knots. It’s like this ’ere. A
knot ain’t a distance; it’s a speed. If I say five knots
I mean five sea miles an hour.”</p>

<p>“A sea mile is longer than an ordinary one?”</p>

<p>“That’s right. It varies in different places, but
you may take it as six thousand and eighty feet
’ere.”</p>

<p>French made a short calculation.</p>

<p>“That is about five and three-quarters English
miles per hour,” he remarked as he scaled this
distance up the Inlet from the position of the crate.
And then his interest quickened suddenly.</p>

<p>A little over five miles from the point at which
the crate had sunk the estuary narrowed to less than
a quarter of a mile in width. At this point it was
crossed by two bridges, carrying, respectively, the
main road and the railway between Swansea and
Llanelly. Had the crate been thrown from one of
these?</p>

<p>French saw at once that no more suitable place
for the purpose could be found. Objects pushed in
from the bank would tend to hug the shore and to
be caught in backwaters or eddies. Moreover, even
if they escaped such traps they would not travel at
anything like the maximum speed of the current.
But from a bridge they could be dropped into the
middle of the stream where the flow was quickest.</p>

<p>“What about the bridge up at Loughor?” he
asked. “If the crate was dropped off that on an
ebb tide, do you think it would get down all right?”</p>

<p>Manners was impressed by the suggestion.
Given a good ebb, about an hour should carry the
crate to where it was found. French rose with
sudden energy.</p>

<p>“Let’s go and see the place. How soon can we
get there?”</p>

<p>By a stroke of luck a train was approaching as
they entered the station, and twenty minutes later
they reached their destination.</p>

<p>Loughor proved to be a straggling village situated
on the left bank of the estuary where the latter
made a right-angled bend towards the north. The
two bridges ran side by side and a couple of hundred
yards apart. That carrying the road was a fine wide
structure of ferro-concrete, fairly new and leading
directly into the village. The railway bridge was
lower downstream, considerably older, and
supported on timber piles. Both were about three
hundred yards long, and built with short spans and
many piers. The tide was out and the usual wide
mudbanks were exposed on either shore.</p>

<p>Directly French saw the spot he felt that here
indeed was what he sought. On a dark night it would
have been easy to drop the crate from the road
bridge in absolute secrecy. Nor, as far as he could
see from the map, was there any other place from
which it could have been done.</p>

<p>He had assumed that the criminal would select
an ebb tide for his attempt, in order to ensure the
crate being carried as far as possible out to sea.
For the same reason French believed he would
choose the time of its most rapid run. That time
must also be in the dead of night to minimise the
risk of discovery from passing road traffic. From
2 to 4 <small>A.M.</small> would probably best meet the conditions,
as the chances were a thousand to one that the road
would then be deserted.</p>

<p>French wondered if he could get anything from
these considerations. He turned to Manners.</p>

<p>“I suppose it takes a bit of time to get up a good
run in an estuary like this? How soon after high
water would you say the current was running at full
speed under the bridge?”</p>

<p>“From one to two hours, more or less.”</p>

<p>One to two hours previous to the period 2 to
4 <small>A.M.</small> meant between midnight and 3 <small>A.M.</small></p>

<p>“Now, Mr. Manners, can you tell me whether
high water fell between twelve and three on any
night about five or six weeks ago?”</p>

<p>Manners once more produced his tide table.</p>

<p>“Five or six weeks ago,” he repeated, slowly.
“That would be between the sixteenth and the
twenty-third of August.” He ran his stubby finger
up the pages, then read out: “ ‘Twenty-first, Sunday,
O point five—that’s five minutes past midnight, you
understand. Twenty-second, Monday, one-twenty-three <small>A.M.</small>;
twenty-third, Tuesday, two-fifty-five <small>A.M.</small>’
’Ow would that suit you, sir?”</p>

<p>“All right, I think,” French answered as he noted
the three dates. “Any of those top springs?”</p>

<p>“No, sir; you don’t get ’igh water of springs at
night. ’Bout six or seven o’clock it runs. Those
dates wot I gave you are about dead neaps.”</p>

<p>“But there is still a strong flow at neaps?”</p>

<p>“Oh, bless you, yes! Not so strong as at springs,
o’ course, but plenty strong enough.”</p>

<p>All this seemed satisfactory to French and he felt
a growing conviction that the small hours of the
21st, 22nd, or 23rd of August had witnessed the
launch of the crate. But this was mere theory, and
theory is popularly admitted to be worth only
one-sixteenth of the value of practice. Could not he
arrive at something more definite?</p>

<p>Suddenly he thought he saw his way.</p>

<p>“You say it was neap tides on those three dates in
August? What rise and fall does that represent?”</p>

<p>“ ’Bout eighteen feet.”</p>

<p>“How soon shall we have that again?”</p>

<p>“Not for nearly a week we shan’t. Say next
Monday.”</p>

<p>“I can’t wait for that. What’s the rise
to-morrow?”</p>

<p>“Twenty-one foot, eleven.”</p>

<p>“And what hour is high water?”</p>

<p>“Eight o’clock in the morning.”</p>

<p>“That’ll have to do. Look, here is a bus labelled
‘Llanelly.’ Let us get aboard.”</p>

<p>At the police station they found not only the
superintendent, but Chief Constable Lloyd.</p>

<p>“Glad to see you together, gentlemen,” French
greeted them. “I’ve been going into the matter of
tides and currents in the Inlet with Mr. Manners
here, and now I want your help in trying an
experiment. Manners informs me that about six weeks
ago, the time at which the doctors believe our man
was murdered, it was high water in the dead period
of the night. To-morrow, Thursday, it will be
high water at eight <small>A.M.</small> The maximum run out to
sea, Manners says, will begin between one and two
hours later, say at nine-thirty. Now, gentlemen, I
want to load the crate with a weight equal to that
of the body and throw it into the estuary from the
Loughor bridge at nine-thirty to-morrow morning.
Will you help me?”</p>

<p>While French had been speaking, the three men
had stared uncomprehendingly, but as he reached his
peroration something like admiration showed on
their faces.</p>

<p>“Well, I’m blessed!” the superintendent said,
slowly, while Major Lloyd gave the suggestion his
instant approval.</p>

<p>“Glad you agree, gentlemen,” said French. “Now
if we’re to be ready we shall want a few things
arranged. First we’ll have to put stones in the crate
to equal the weight of the body. Then we’ll want
a carpenter to repair the top where Mr. Morgan
broke it. He’ll have to make it watertight with
pitch or putty or something: I don’t want it to take
any water through the cracks. A lorry will also be
needed to carry the crate to the bridge and three or
four men to lift it over the parapet.”</p>

<p>“Very good,” the chief constable answered.
“Nield can arrange all that. Advise him, will you,
Superintendent? But you’d better see him yourself,
Inspector, and make sure he forgets nothing.
Anything else?”</p>

<p>“Yes, sir. We don’t want to lose the crate. We
shall want a rope round it and a boat in attendance.”</p>

<p>“You can fix that up, Manners, can’t you?”</p>

<p>“Certainly, sir. I’ll see to it.”</p>

<p>“Good. I’ll come down to watch the experiment.
Shall we say nine-thirty at the bridge?”</p>

<p>At nine o’clock next morning two vehicles left
the Burry Port police station. The first was a lorry
and on it stood the crate, repaired and loaded with
the necessary weight of shingle, due allowance
having been made for the fact that the wood was now
water-logged. Behind followed a car containing
French, Nield, and three constables in plain clothes.</p>

<p>The weather was ideal for their purpose. The
fine spell had lasted and the sun shone with a
summery warmth and brilliance. Not a breath of wind
dulled the shining surface of the Inlet, still calm
and placid from the turn of the tide. Inland the
hills showed sharp against the clear blue of the sky.
Out beyond the Gower Peninsula was a steamer
going up to Swansea or Cardiff.</p>

<p>The chief constable and Superintendent Griffiths
were waiting for them at Loughor. Already the
tide was running swiftly, swirling and eddying round
the piers of the bridge. Moored to the bank at the
east end was a broad-beamed boat with Manners
in the stern sheets and two oarsmen amidships.</p>

<p>“Good Heavens! They’ll never row against that
current!” French exclaimed, aghast at the rushing
flood.</p>

<p>“They’re not going to try,” Nield declared. “This
is what I’ve arranged with Manners. He has an
extra-long painter fixed to his boat. We’ll get the
end up on the bridge and tie it to the crate. Then
we’ll throw crate and rope over together and
Manners can pull the slack of the rope into the boat and
float down beside the crate.”</p>

<p>“Right. Let me get into the boat first and then
carry on.”</p>

<p>French scrambled down the stone pitching of the
bank and with some difficulty got aboard. The
rope had been passed up to the bridge and was now
worked across till the boat was nearly in midstream.
Even with the help of the oarsmen it was all those
above could do to hold on. Then the crate appeared
rising slowly on to the parapet. Presently it turned
over and fell, the rope being thrown clear at the
same time.</p>

<p>The crate entered the water with a mighty splash,
drenching the boat with spray and disappearing
momentarily beneath the surface. Then it came up
again, and bobbing about like some ungainly animal,
began to move quickly downstream. The boatmen
rowed after it, while Manners hurriedly pulled in
the slack of the rope.</p>

<p>After the first few plunges the crate settled down
on what might be called an even keel, floating
placidly down the estuary. They were rapidly
approaching the railway bridge, the roar of the water
through the piles being already audible. The passage
was not without danger and the oarsmen worked
hard to keep the boat clear of the piles and to
ensure its passing through the same opening as the
crate. Then with a rush they were through and
floating in the calm water beyond.</p>

<p>French enjoyed that unconventional trip down the
Inlet. Apart from the interest of the quest, the
glorious weather and the charming scenery made it
a delightful excursion. Borne on by the current,
they first hugged the salt marshes of the northern
shore, then heading out towards midchannel, they
passed the post on Careg-ddu and rounded the
point at the Llanelly rifle range. They kept inside
the long training-bank or breakwater and, passing
the entrance to Llanelly harbour, stood out towards
the open sea. From the water the highlands north
and south looked rugged and picturesque, and even
the dingy buildings of the town became idealised and
seemed to fit their setting. French took frequent
bearings so as to be able to plot their course on
the map.</p>

<p>The crate had been settling down steadily, and
now only about two inches of freeboard showed,
every tiny wavelet washing over it. The rope had
been carefully coiled so as to run out easily when the
time came. Presently the crate was entirely awash
and the air escaping through the upper holes
bubbled as the little surges covered them. Then it was
below the surface, showing like a phantom under
the waves. At last, just one hour and seven minutes
after they had left the bridge, it slowly vanished
from sight and the rope began to run out.</p>

<p>“That will do,” French said as soon as he had
taken bearings. “That’s all I want. We may haul
it up and get ashore.”</p>

<p>They followed the example set by Mr. Morgan,
and pulling up the crate until the top was showing
beneath the surface, made the rope fast to the
after-thwart and pulled for the Burry Port harbour.
There they beached their burden, the sergeant
undertaking to salve it when the tide fell.</p>

<p>French, delighted with the result of his experiment,
hurried to the hotel and plotted their course
on his map. And then he was more delighted still.
The crate had passed within fifty yards of its
previous resting-place.</p>

<p>It was true it had gone nearly half a mile further,
but that was to be expected and was attributable to
the greater fall of the tide.</p>

<p>That the crate had been thrown from the
Loughor bridge on the night of the 21st, 22nd, or
23rd of August French had now no doubt. The
first problem of the investigation had therefore
been solved and he congratulated himself on
having made so brilliant a start in his new case.</p>

<p>But as was usual in criminal investigations, the
solution of one problem merely led to another:
How had the crate been transported to the bridge?</p>

<p>There were three possibilities: by means of a
handcart, a horse cart or a motor lorry. All,
however, had the serious objection that it would
take at least three men to lift the crate over the
parapet. Murders, of course, were sometimes the
work of gangs, but much more frequently they were
carried out by individuals, and French would have
preferred a theory which involved only one man.
However, there was nothing for it but to follow the
theory which he had.</p>

<p>As far as he could see, the only factor differentiating
between the three vehicles was that of radius of
operation. If a hand cart had been used the body
must have been brought from Loughor, Bynea, or
some other place in the immediate vicinity. The
same remarks applied to a horse vehicle, though to
a lesser extent. With a motor the distance travelled
might have been almost anything.</p>

<p>French did not believe that the body could have
come from anywhere near by. Had anyone disappeared
or left the neighbourhood under suspicious
circumstances, the police would have known about
it. The motor lorry was, therefore, the more likely
of the three.</p>

<p>He began to see the outlines of an enquiry
stretching out before him. Had anyone seen a motor,
loaded with something which might have been the
crate, in any part of the surrounding country on the
night of the 21st, 22nd, or 23rd of August?</p>

<p>Going to the police station, French rang up the
chief constable, reported the result of the
experiment, and asked him to see that his question was
circulated, not only among the Carmarthenshire
police, but also among those of adjoining counties.
Then, thinking he had not done so badly for one
day, he returned to the hotel for lunch.</p>

<p>A good deal of the afternoon he employed in
speculating as to what he should do if there were
no answer to his circular, but next morning he was
delighted to find that his labour had not been in
vain. Sergeant Nield appeared to say that there
had just been a message from the police at Neath,
saying that a lorry answering to the description had
been seen on the evening of Monday, 22nd August.
It was fitted with a breakdown crane and carried a
large package covered with a tarpaulin which might
easily have been the crate. A constable had seen
it about eight at night, standing in a lane some two
miles north of the town. The driver was working
at the engine, which he said had been giving trouble.</p>

<p>“That’s a bit of good news, Sergeant,” French
said, heartily. “How can I get to this Neath
quickest?”</p>

<p>“Direct train <i lang="la">via</i> Swansea. It’s on the main line
to London.”</p>

<p>“Right. Look up the trains, will you, while I get
ready?”</p>

<p>French had little doubt that he was on a hot
scent. He had not thought of a portable crane,
but now he saw that nothing more suitable for the
purpose could be obtained. There were, he knew,
cranes—auto-cranes, he believed they were
called—which were fixed on lorries and used for towing
disabled cars. In certain types the jibs could be
raised or lowered under load. With the jib down
a load could be picked up from the ground behind
the lorry. The jib could then be raised to its highest
position, and if the load was right up at the pulley it
would clear the tail end of the lorry. When the
load was lowered it would come down on the lorry.
And all this could be done by one man.</p>

<p>As French closed his eyes he seemed to see the
reverse process being carried out—a crane-lorry
arriving on the Loughor bridge, stopping, backing
at right angles to the road until its tail was up
against the parapet—the road was wide enough to
allow of it; the driver getting down, taking a
tarpaulin off a crate, swinging the crate up to the pulley
of his crane, lowering the jib until the crate swung
suspended over the rushing flood beneath, then
striking out some type of slip shackle which allowed the
crate to fall clear. It was all not only possible but
easy, and French had not the slightest doubt that it
had been done.</p>

<p>A couple of hours later he was seated in the police
station at Neath, listening to Constable David
Jenkins’s story.</p>

<p>It seemed that about eight o’clock on the night of
Monday, the 22nd of August, Jenkins was walking
along a lane leading through a small spinney some
two miles north of the town, when he came on a
lorry drawn in close to one side. It was fitted with
a crane such as is used for motor breakdowns, and
behind the crane was an object covered with a
tarpaulin. This object was rectangular shaped and
about the size of the crate. There had been engine
trouble which the driver was trying to make good.
Jenkins paused and wished the man good night, and
they talked for a few minutes. The man was
slightly over middle height and rather stout, and
was dressed as a lorryman—a workingman,
evidently. He had reddish hair, a high colour, and
glasses, and Jenkins felt sure he would know him
again. The man explained that he was going from
Swansea to Merthyr Tydfil and had got out of his
way in trying to take a short cut. Then his engine
had broken down and he was thus kept very late.
But he had now found the defect and would be able
to get on in a few minutes. Jenkins had stayed
chatting, and in five minutes the man had said, “There,
that’s got it,” and had closed up the bonnet and
moved off.</p>

<p>“Coming from Swansea, was he?” French said.
“Does that lane lead from Swansea?”</p>

<p>“Oh, yes, it leads from Swansea all right, but it
doesn’t lead to Merthyr Tydfil.”</p>

<p>“Where does it lead to?”</p>

<p>“More like to Pontardawe.”</p>

<p>That was all right. French was delighted with
the way news was coming in. That the constable
had seen his man he did not doubt.</p>

<p>At the time, Jenkins went on, it had struck him
as curious that a breakdown lorry should be used for
transporting goods. But on reading French’s
circular he had seen that here was a plant which would
lift the goods over the parapet of a bridge. And
when he remembered that the tarpaulin-covered
object was about the size given, he felt he ought to
report the occurrence.</p>

<p>“Quite right, constable,” French said, heartily.
“I am sure your superiors will not overlook your
action.”</p>

<p>French’s next step was clear. A crane-lorry
should not be difficult to trace. He would go back
to Swansea and put the necessary enquiries in train.</p>



<h2>Chapter Four: A Change of Venue</h2>

<p>On reaching Swansea French looked up
Superintendent Howells at the police station.</p>

<p>“Glad to see you, Mr. French,” the superintendent
greeted him. “I’ve known your name for a
considerable time and since I heard you were down
over this job I’ve been hoping we should meet.
That Neath report any good to you?”</p>

<p>“I think so,” French answered. “It sounds
promising, at all events. On the strength of it
I’ve come in to ask for your help.”</p>

<p>“That’s all right. What do you want us to do?”</p>

<p>“I want to trace the lorry your man saw out at
Neath. I’ve got his description of it, and I must
say that, seeing he suspected nothing at the time,
he observed it pretty closely. A smart man,
Superintendent.”</p>

<p>“I’m glad you think so, Inspector. Right. I’ll
put through a call to all stations immediately.”</p>

<p>“Splendid. And can you ask Superintendent
Griffiths at Llanelly to advise the Carmarthen men
also?”</p>

<p>The necessary circular drafted, the two chatted
for some minutes until French excused himself on
the ground that since he was at Swansea he might
as well have a look round the town.</p>

<p>“There’s not much to see in it, Mr. French,”
Howells rejoined, “but Mumbles is worth visiting.
I should advise you to take a bus there and walk
round the Head and back by Langland. If you’re
fond of a bit of good coast you’ll enjoy it. You’ll
have plenty of time before we get any replies.
Sorry I can’t go with you, but I’m full up here.”</p>

<p>French went out, and after a stroll through some
of the principal streets got on board a bus for
Mumbles. There he took the walk Superintendent
Howells had recommended. He enjoyed every minute
of it. As he left the houses behind and the road
began to rise up the side of the cliff he felt he was
having one of the compensations of a country case.
He walked up through the long rock cutting until
at the top the wide expanse of the Bristol Channel
came into view, with the islands and lighthouse off
the Head in the foreground. There was some wind
and the deep blue of the sea was flecked with white.
He stood and watched three outward-bound steamers
pitching gently in the swell, the smoke from their
stacks trailing away east. Then he took the
footpath round the cliffs, rising high round Rams Tor
and dropping again to Langland Bay, from which
another road led across the neck of the peninsula
back into Mumbles. It was getting on towards five
when he returned to the police station.</p>

<p>“You’ve come at the right time, Inspector,”
Superintendent Howells greeted him. “I’ve just
had two pieces of news. Your lorry was seen twice.
About five o’clock on Monday evening, 22nd August,
the evening in question, it was seen by one of our
men passing through Morriston. Morriston is a
town some two miles north of Swansea; indeed, it is
really a suburb. The lorry came from the Swansea
direction and turned east at Morriston towards
Neath. It was then carrying the tarpaulin-covered
object.”</p>

<p>“Then it started from Swansea?”</p>

<p>“Looks like it. And it looks as if it finished up
at Swansea also. It was seen again on the
following morning. About ten o’clock a patrol saw a
breakdown lorry coming towards Swansea along the
Pontardulais road. It corresponded with the
description in every respect except that it was
carrying the tarpaulin only.”</p>

<p>“By Jove! Superintendent, that’s good. It won’t
be long till we run it to earth. I take it there are
not many breakdown lorries in Swansea.”</p>

<p>“Give you a list in half an hour.” He touched a
bell. “Here, Thomas, start in and ring up all the
local garages and find out how many have repair
lorries. You know what I mean, fitted with cranes.
And see here. You needn’t worry about any with
fixed jibs—only those that can be raised and
lowered. Got that?”</p>

<p>The constable saluted smartly and withdrew.
Howells turned to French and was beginning a
remark, when his desk telephone rang.</p>

<p>“Yes. Superintendent Howells speaking. . . .
Yes. . . . Gorseinon. . . . Yes. . . . What time
was that? . . . Very good, I’ve got you.” He
rang off. “There’s another, Mr. French. I
think you’re all right this time. At half past twelve
that same Monday night a patrol found your lorry
in another lane, also hidden by trees. It was
a mile or so east of a little place called Gorseinon:
that’s about five miles northeast of Loughor. It
was standing in the lane and the driver was working
at his engine. Our men stopped and spoke, and the
driver said he had been on a job out beyond Llandilo
and was returning to Swansea. The description
matches and the crate was then on the lorry.”</p>

<p>“Fine!” French exclaimed. “That settles it. He
was evidently going round killing time until it was
late enough to throw in the crate. Could we fix his
course from all those places you mentioned?”</p>

<p>“Pretty nearly, I think. Here is a map of the
district. He seems to have just made a circle from
Swansea to Loughor <i lang="la">via</i> Morriston, Neath,
Pontardawe and Gorseinon: say twenty-five miles
altogether. Goodness knows how he returned, but it
may have been through Bynea and Pontardulais.
We may take it he made another détour, anyhow.”</p>

<p>“He made a blunder going with the lorry in that
open way,” French said, grimly.</p>

<p>“I don’t see what else he could have done. But I
bet he wasn’t worrying much about being seen. He
was banking on the crate not being found.”</p>

<p>“You’re right, and on odds he was justified. It
was by a pretty thin chance that it was discovered.
I was saying that to Nield—how the one unlikely
chance that a man overlooks or discounts is the one
that gets him.”</p>

<p>“That’s a fact, Inspector, and it’s lucky for us it
is so. I remember once when——”</p>

<p>But French was not destined to hear the
superintendent’s reminiscence. The telephone bell once
again rang stridently.</p>

<p>“Got it in one,” Howells observed after listening
to the message. “There is only one lorry in
Swansea fitted with a movable crane, and it is owned by
Messrs. Llewellyn of Fisher Street. Moreover, it
was hired about four o’clock on the afternoon of
that Monday, twenty-second August, and returned
next morning. Will you see them now? If so, I’ll
come along and show you the place.”</p>

<p>They soon reached Fisher Street, where was a
large garage bearing the name, “The Stepney
Motor Car Co.” The superintendent, entering,
asked for Mr. Llewellyn.</p>

<p>The proprietor looked thrilled when he learned
French’s business.</p>

<p>“By Jove! You don’t say that that crate was
carried on my lorry!” he exclaimed. “I read about its
discovery, and a dam’ good tale it made. How did
you find out so much?”</p>

<p>“I’ve not proved anything,” French replied. “The
whole thing is pure suspicion. But you may lead me
to certainty. I’d be obliged if you would tell me
what took place.”</p>

<p>“Surely. I’ll tell you all I can, but it won’t be
much.” He opened a daybook and ran down the
items. “The 22nd of August,” he went on. “Yes,
here it is. We hired out the lorry on that date.
But it was ordered beforehand. We got a letter
several days before from London from one of the
big hotels, signed Stewart, asking if we had a
breakdown lorry for hire, and if so, at what rate. It
particularised one with a movable jib which would pick
up a load from the ground and set it on the lorry
table. The machine would be wanted on the
afternoon of the 22nd for one day only. If we agreed,
the writer’s man would call for it about four on that
afternoon and would return it before midday on the
23rd. As the writer was a stranger, he would be
willing to deposit whatever sum we thought fair as
a guaranty. The lorry was wanted to pick up a
special machine which the writer was expecting by
sea from London, and carry it to his place in
Brecknock, where it was to be lowered on to a
foundation. As it was part of an invention he was
perfecting, he didn’t want any strangers about. He
made it a condition, therefore, that his man would
drive.</p>

<p>“It wasn’t a very usual request, but it seemed
reasonable enough, and of course it was none of my
business what he wanted the machine for. At
first I wasn’t very keen on letting it go, but I thought
if he would pay a deposit of three hundred pounds
and five pounds for the hire, I should be safely
covered. It was only a Ford ton truck with the
crane added. I wrote him the conditions and he
replied agreeing to the figures and asking that the
lorry should be ready at the hour mentioned.</p>

<p>“At the time stated a man came in and said he
had been sent for the machine by his employer, Mr.
Stewart. He produced the three hundred pounds
and I gave him a receipt. Then he drove away.</p>

<p>“Next day about ten-thirty he came back and said
he had got done earlier than he expected. I had the
lorry examined, and when I found it was all right I
paid him back two hundred and ninety-five pounds.
He returned me my receipt and went out, and that
was all about it.”</p>

<p>“It’s a pleasure to get a clear statement like that,
Mr. Llewellyn,” French said, with his friendly
smile, “and it’s surprising how seldom one does get
it. There are just one or two further points I
should like information on. Have you got those
letters from the London hotel?”</p>

<p>“No, I’m afraid they’re destroyed. They were
kept until the transaction was finished and then
burned.”</p>

<p>“But you have the address?”</p>

<p>“Mr. John F. Stewart, St. Pancras Hotel,
London.”</p>

<p>“You might give me the dates of the
correspondence.”</p>

<p>This also the owner was able to do, and French
added them to his notes.</p>

<p>“Can you describe the hand they were written in?”</p>

<p>“They were typewritten.”</p>

<p>“Purple or black ribbon?”</p>

<p>Mr. Llewellyn hesitated.</p>

<p>“Black, I think, but I couldn’t be sure.”</p>

<p>“Now about the driver. Can you describe him?”</p>

<p>“He was a middling tall man, middling stout also.
His hair was red and his complexion fresh, and he
wore glasses.”</p>

<p>“His dress?”</p>

<p>“I could hardly describe it. He was dressed like
a well-to-do labourer or a small jobbing contractor
or something of that sort. He was untidy and I
remember thinking that he wanted a shave pretty
badly. I took him for a gardener or general man
about a country place.”</p>

<p>“You couldn’t guess where he had come from by
his accent?”</p>

<p>“No, I couldn’t tell. He wasn’t local, but that’s
all I could say.”</p>

<p>“The same man came back next day?”</p>

<p>“Yes.”</p>

<p>“Had you any conversation with him on either
occasion?”</p>

<p>“No, except that he explained about lowering the
machine on to the foundation, same as in the letter.”</p>

<p>This seemed to French to be all he could get, and
after some further talk he and the superintendent
took their leave.</p>

<p>“He’s loaded up the crate here in Swansea, at all
events,” French exclaimed when they were in the
street. “That seems to postulate docks and stations.
I wonder if I can trespass still further on your good
nature, Superintendent?”</p>

<p>“Of course. I’ll send men round first thing to-morrow.
It’s too late to-night; all the places would
be shut.”</p>

<p>“Thanks. Then I’ll turn up early in the
morning.”</p>

<p>At the nearest telegraph office French sent a
message to the Yard to have enquiries made at the
St. Pancras Hotel as to the mysterious Mr. John F.
Stewart. Then, tired from his exertions, he returned
to his hotel at Burry Port.</p>

<p>Early next morning he was back in Swansea. It
was decided that with a constable who knew the
docks he, French, was to apply at the various
steamship offices, while other men were to try the
railway stations and road transport agencies. If
these failed, the local firms and manufacturers who
usually sent out their products in crates were to be
called on. French did not believe that the search
would be protracted.</p>

<p>This view speedily proved correct. He had
visited only three offices when a constable arrived
with a message. News of the crate had been
obtained at the Morriston Road Goods Station.</p>

<p>Fifteen minutes later French reached the place.
He was met at the gate by Sergeant Jefferies, who
had made the discovery.</p>

<p>“I asked in the goods office first, sir,” the
sergeant explained, “but they didn’t remember
anything there. Then I came out to the yard and began
enquiring from the porters. At the fifth shot I
found a man who remembered loading the crate. I
didn’t question him further, but sent you word.”</p>

<p>“That was right, Sergeant. We shall soon get
what we want. This the man?”</p>

<p>“Yes, sir.”</p>

<p>French turned to a thick set man in the uniform of
a goods porter, who was standing expectantly by.</p>

<p>“Good day,” he said, pleasantly. “I want to
know what you can tell me about that crate that was
loaded upon a crane lorry about six weeks ago.”</p>

<p>“I can’t tell you nothing about it except that I
helped for to get it loaded up,” the porter
answered. “I was trucking here when Mr. Evans
came up; he’s one o’ the clerks, you understand.
Well, he came up and handed me a waybill and sez:
‘Get out that crate,’ he sez, ‘an’ get it loaded up on
this lorry,’ he sez. So I calls two or three o’ the
boys to give me a hand and we gets it loaded up.
An’ that’s all I knows about it.”</p>

<p>“That’s all right. Now just take me along to
Mr. Evans, will you?”</p>

<p>The man led the way across the yard to the
office. Mr. Evans was only a junior, but this fact
did not prevent French from treating him with his
usual courtesy. He explained that the youth had
it in his power to give him valuable help for which
he would be very grateful. The result was that
Evans instantly became his eager ally, willing to
take any trouble to find out what was required.</p>

<p>The youth remembered the details of the case. It
appeared that shortly after four o’clock one afternoon
some five or six weeks previously a man called
for a crate. He was of rather above medium height
and build, with reddish hair and a high colour and
wore glasses. He sounded to Evans like a Londoner.
At all events, he was not a native. Evans
had looked up the waybills and had found that a
package had been invoiced to some one of the name
given. The crate answered the man’s description,
and was carriage paid and addressed, “To be called
for.” Evans had, therefore, no hesitation in letting
him have it. Unfortunately, he could not remember
the stranger’s name, but he would search for it
through the old waybills.</p>

<p>He vanished for a few minutes, then returned
with a bulky volume which he set down triumphantly
before French.</p>

<p>“There you are,” he exclaimed, pointing to an
item. “ ‘Mr. James S. Stephenson, Great Western
Railway Goods Station, Morriston Road, Swansea.
To be called for.’ ‘Stephenson’ was the name. I
remember it now.”</p>

<p>This was good enough as far as it went, but
Evans’s next answer was the one that really
mattered.</p>

<p>“Who was the sender?” French asked, with thinly
veiled eagerness.</p>

<p>“ ‘The Veda Office Equipment Manufacturing
Co., Ltd., Ashburton, South Devon,’ ” read Evans.</p>

<p>The name seemed dimly familiar to French, but
he could not remember where he had heard it.
Evans went on to say that the crate was invoiced
from Ashburton on Tuesday, 16th August, and had
reached Swansea on Saturday, 20th. Carriage had
been paid by the Veda Company and the whole
transaction had been conducted in a perfectly
ordinary and regular way.</p>

<p>French left the goods office, and at the nearest
telephone call office rang up the police station in
Ashburton. After a considerable delay he got
through. Would the sergeant enquire for him
whether the Veda Company had sent out a crate on
the 16th August last, addressed to the Morriston
Road Goods Station, Swansea, to be called for, and
if so, what was in this crate and who had ordered it.</p>

<p>For nearly three hours he hung about the police
station before being recalled to the telephone. The
Ashburton sergeant reported that he had been to the
Veda Works and that the manager confirmed the
sending out of the crate. It contained a large
duplicator, a specialty of the firm’s. The machine had
been ordered by letter from the Euston Hotel by a
Mr. James S. Stephenson. He enclosed the money,
£62.10.0, stating that they were to send it to the
Morriston Road Goods Station in Swansea, labelled,
“To be kept till called for.” It was to be there
not later than on the 20th August, and he would call
for it when the ship by which he intended to despatch
it was ready to sail.</p>

<p>The news did not seem very hopeful to French as
over a belated lunch he discussed it with Howells.</p>

<p>“This opens a second line of enquiry at
Ashburton,” he began, “but I do not think, somehow,
that we shall get much from it. I believe the real
scent lies here.”</p>

<p>“Why so? I should have said it depended on
what was in the crate when it reached Swansea.
And that’s just what we don’t know.”</p>

<p>“I agree. But to me that sergeant’s report sounds
as if things at Ashburton were O.K. If so, it
follows that the body was put in sometime during that
lorry run from Swansea to Loughor. But that
doesn’t rule out enquiries at Ashburton. Even if I
am right, something may be learned from the order
for the machine.”</p>

<p>“Quite. Both ends will have to be worked. And
how do you propose to do it?”</p>

<p>“Can’t you guess?” French said, blandly. “Surely
there can be but one answer. I couldn’t hope to
do it without the able and distinguished help of
Superintendent Howells.”</p>

<p>The other laughed.</p>

<p>“I thought it was shaping to that. Well, what
do you want me to do?”</p>

<p>“Trace the run, Superintendent. You can do it
in a way I couldn’t attempt. I would suggest that
with a map we work out the area which could have
been visited during that night, allowing time for
unpacking the duplicating machine and putting the
body in its place. Then I think this area should be
combed. If murder has taken place, you’ll hear of
it.”</p>

<p>“And you?”</p>

<p>“I shall go to Ashburton, learn what I can from
the order, and, if it seems worth while, follow it up
to London. Then I’ll come back here and join forces
with you. Of course we shall have to get
Superintendent Griffiths on the job also.”</p>

<p>After some further discussion this program was
agreed to. French, with the superintendent’s help,
was to estimate the area to be covered and to
organise the search. To-morrow was Sunday, and
if by Monday evening nothing had come of it he
was to leave Howells to carry on while he paid his
visits to Ashburton and if necessary to London.</p>

<p>The longest unknown period of the lorry’s
operations being from 8.30 to 12.30 at night, this was
taken as being the ruling factor in the case. During
these four hours the machine had travelled from
Neath to Gorseinon, a distance of about twenty-five
miles. About two hours would be accounted for
by the journey and the changing of the contents of
the crate, leaving two or more hours for additional
running—an hour out and an hour back. This
meant a radius of about twenty-five miles. The
problem, therefore, was to make an intensive search
of the country within, say, thirty miles of Swansea.</p>

<p>This was a large area and the work involved the
coöperation of a good many men. However, with
Superintendent Howells’s help it was arranged, and
by that evening operations were everywhere in
progress.</p>

<p>During the whole of the next two days French
remained on the job, working out possible routes for
the lorry and making special enquiries along them.
But no further information was obtained, and when
Monday evening came without result he decided
that unless he heard something next morning he
would start for Ashburton.</p>

<p>But next morning news had come in which made
a visit there essential. It appeared that about 9.30
on the evening in question the lorry had been seen
standing in the same lane at Gorseinon in which,
three hours later, the police patrol had found it.
A labourer reported that he had passed it on his way
home. As he approached, the driver was sitting on
the step, but, on seeing him, the man had jumped up
and busied himself with the engine. The labourer
had passed on out of sight, but, his way taking him
along a path at right angles to the lane, he had
looked back across country and noticed the driver
again seated on the step and lighting a cigarette.
The position of the lorry was the same then as three
hours later, and the conclusion that it had not
moved during the whole period seemed unavoidable.</p>

<p>But if so, it made it much less likely that the body
had been put into the crate during the motor drive.
The time available would have been so short that
the area in which the change could have been made
would have been very small indeed. The chances of
a disappearance remaining unknown to the police
would, therefore, have been correspondingly
reduced. For the first time French began to consider
seriously the possibility that the body had come
from Devonshire.</p>

<p>While, therefore, Superintendent Howells in no
way relaxed his efforts, French took an early train
south. He was in a thoughtful mood as they pulled
out of the station. This, it was evident, was going
to be one of those troublesome cases in which an
ingenious criminal had enveloped his evil deeds in a
network of false clues and irrelevant circumstances
to mislead the unfortunate detective officer to whom
an investigation into them might afterward be
assigned. Confound it all! It was not long since he
had got rid of that terribly involved affair at
Starvel in Yorkshire, and here was another that
bade fair to be as bad. However, such was life, and
worrying wouldn’t alter it. He was starting on an
interesting journey and he might as well forget his
case and make the most of the scenery.</p>



<h2>Chapter Five: Messrs. Berlyn and Pyke</h2>

<p>Shortly before six o’clock that evening French
stepped out of the train at the little terminus of
Ashburton.</p>

<p>He had enjoyed his run, particularly the latter
portion through the charming South Devonshire
scenery, along the coast under the red cliffs of
Dawlish and Teignmouth, and then inland through the
well-wooded hills of Newton Abbot and Totnes.
He was pleased, too, with the appearance of
Ashburton, a town T-shaped in plan and squeezed
down into the narrow valleys between three hills.
He admired its old world air and its pleasant
situation as he walked up the street to the Silver Tiger,
the hotel to which he had been recommended.</p>

<p>After a leisurely dinner he went out for a stroll,
ending up shortly after dark at the police station.
Sergeant Daw had gone home, but a constable was
despatched for him and presently he turned up.</p>

<p>“I went to the works at once, sir,” he explained
in answer to French’s question. “They’re out at the
end of North Street. A big place for so small a
town. They employ a hundred or more men and a
lot of women and girls. A great benefit to the town,
sir.”</p>

<p>“And whom did you see?”</p>

<p>“I saw Mr. Fogden, the sales manager. He
turned up the information without delay. The
duplicator was ordered from London and he showed me
the letter. You can see it if you go up to-morrow.
There was nothing out of the way about the
transaction. They packed the machine and sent it off, and
that was all they could tell me.”</p>

<p>Suspiciously like a wild-goose chase, thought
French as he chatted pleasantly with the sergeant.
Like his <i lang="fr">confrère</i> at Burry Port, the man seemed
more intelligent and better educated than most rural
policemen. They discussed the weather and the
country for some time and then French said:</p>

<p>“By the way, Sergeant, the name of this Veda
Works seemed vaguely familiar when you
telephoned it. Has it been in the papers lately or can
you explain how I should know it?”</p>

<p>“No doubt, sir, you read of the sad accident we
had here about six weeks ago—a tragedy, if I may
put it so. Two of the gentlemen belonging to the
works—Mr. Berlyn, the junior partner, and Mr.
Pyke, the travelling representative—lost their lives
on the moor. Perhaps you recall it, sir?”</p>

<p>Of course! The affair now came back to French.
So far as he could recall the circumstances, the two
men had been driving across Dartmoor at night, and
while still several miles from home their car had
broken down. They had attempted to reach the
house of a friend by crossing a bit of the moor, but
in the dark they had missed their way, and getting
into one of the soft “mires,” had been sucked down
and lost.</p>

<p>“I read of it, yes. Very sad thing. Unusual, too,
was it not?”</p>

<p>“Yes, sir, for those who live about here know the
danger and they don’t go near these doubtful places
at night. But animals sometimes get caught. I’ve
seen a pony go down myself, and I can tell you, sir,
I don’t wish to see another. It was a slow business,
and the worse the creature struggled the tighter it
got held. But when it comes to human beings it’s
a thing you don’t like to think about.”</p>

<p>“That’s a fact, Sergeant. By the way, it’s like a
dream to me that I once met those two gentlemen.
I wish you’d describe them.”</p>

<p>“They were not unlike so far as figure and build
were concerned; about five feet nine or five feet ten
in height, I should say, though Mr. Berlyn was
slightly the bigger man. But their colouring was
different. Mr. Berlyn had a high colour and blue
eyes and reddish hair, while Mr. Pyke was sallow,
with brown eyes and hair.”</p>

<p>“Did Mr. Berlyn wear glasses?” French asked,
with difficulty keeping the eagerness out of his voice.</p>

<p>“No, sir. Neither of them did that.”</p>

<p>“I don’t think they can be the men I met. Well,
I’ll go up and see this Mr. Fogden in the morning.
Good night, Sergeant.”</p>

<p>“Good night, sir. If there’s anything I can do I
take it you’ll let me know.”</p>

<p>But French next morning did not go to the office
equipment works. Instead he took an early bus
to Torquay, and calling at the local office of
the <i>Western Morning News</i>, asked to see their recent
files. These he looked over, finally buying all the
papers which contained any reference to the tragic
deaths of Messrs. Berlyn and Pyke.</p>

<p>He had no suspicions in the matter except that
here was a disappearance of two persons about the
time of the murder, one of whom answered to the
description of the man who had called for the crate.
No one appeared to doubt their death on the moor,
but—their bodies had not been found. French
wished to know what was to be known about the
affair before going to the works, simply to be on the
safe side.</p>

<p>He retired to the smoking room of the nearest
hotel and began to read up his papers. At once he
discovered a fact which he thought deeply significant.
The tragedy had taken place on the night of
Monday, the 15th August. And it was on the following
day, Tuesday, the 16th, that the crate had been
despatched from Ashburton.</p>

<p>The case was exhaustively reported, and after
half an hour’s reading French knew all that the
reporters had gleaned. Briefly, the circumstances
were as follow:</p>

<p>Charles Berlyn, as has been said, was junior
partner of the firm. He was a man of about forty and
he looked after the commercial side of the
undertaking. Stanley Pyke was an engineer who acted as
technical travelling representative, a younger man,
not more than five and thirty. Each had a high
reputation for character and business efficiency.</p>

<p>It happened that for some time previous to the
date in question the Urban District Council of
Tavistock had been in communication with the Veda
Works relative to the purchase of filing cabinets and
other office appliances for their clerk. There had
been a hitch in the negotiations and Mr. Berlyn had
arranged to attend the next meeting of the council
in the hope of settling the matter. As some of the
council members were farmers, busy during that
season in the daytime, the meeting was held in the
evening. Mr. Berlyn arranged to motor over, Mr.
Pyke accompanying him.</p>

<p>The two men left the works at half past five, their
usual hour. Each dined early and they set out in
Mr. Berlyn’s car about seven. They expected to
reach Tavistock at eight, at which hour the meeting
was to begin. After their business was finished they
intended to call on a mill owner just outside
Tavistock in connection with a set of loose-leaf forms he
had ordered. The mill owner was a personal friend
of Mr. Berlyn’s and they intended to spend the
evening with him, leaving about eleven and reaching
home about midnight.</p>

<p>This program they carried out faithfully, at least
in its earlier stages. They reached Tavistock just
as the meeting of the Urban Council was beginning,
and settled the business of the office appliances.
Then they went on to the mill owner’s, arranged
about the loose-leaf forms, and sat chatting over
cigars and drinks until shortly before eleven. At
precisely ten-fifty they set off on their return journey,
everything connected with them being perfectly
normal and in order.</p>

<p>They were never seen again.</p>

<p>Mrs. Berlyn went to bed at her ordinary time,
but, waking up shortly before three and finding that
Mr. Berlyn had not returned, she immediately grew
anxious. It was so unlike him to fail to carry
out his plans that his absence suggested disaster.
She hastily put on some clothes and went out to the
garage, and on finding that the car was not there she
woke the servant and said she was going to the
police. Without waiting for the girl to dress, she
went out and knocked up Sergeant Daw at his little
cottage.</p>

<p>Though the sergeant did his best to reassure her,
he was by no means easy in his own mind. The road
from Tavistock to Ashburton is far from safe,
especially for night motoring. It is terribly hilly and
winding and at night extraordinarily deserted. An
accident might easily happen and in such lonely
country, hours might pass before its discovery.</p>

<p>The sergeant at once called a colleague and the
two men started off on motor bicycles to
investigate. About eight miles out on the moor they came
to Mr. Berlyn’s car standing close up to the side of
the road, as if drawn out of the way of passing
traffic. It was heavily coated with dew and looked as
if it had been there for hours. The engine and
radiator were cold and there was no sign of either of
its occupants.</p>

<p>At the side of the road was a patch of gravelly
soil mixed with peat, and across it, leading from the
road out over the moor, were two lines of
footsteps. The prints were not sufficiently sharp to give
detailed impressions, but the sergeant had no doubt
as to whom they belonged. He tried to follow them
over the moor, but the grass was too rough to
allow of this.</p>

<p>But he soon realised what had happened. Three-quarters
of a mile across the moor, in the direction
in which the footsteps pointed, lived the senior
partner of the Veda Company, Colonel Domlio. His
was the only house in the neighbourhood, and it was,
therefore, natural that if from a breakdown of the
car or other reason the travellers had got into
difficulties, they should go to him for help. But the
house was not approached from the road on which
they were travelling. The drive started from that
which diverged at Two Bridges and led northwards
to Moretonhampstead. To have gone round by the
road would, therefore, have meant a walk of nearly
five miles, whereas fifteen minutes would have taken
them across the moor. It was evident that they
had adopted the latter course.</p>

<p>And therein lay their fate. Some quarter of a
mile from the road were a number of those treacherous,
vivid green areas of quagmire, to stumble into
which is to run the risk of a horrible death. They
were not quite in the direct line to the house, but in
one of the mists which come up so frequently and
unexpectedly it would not have been difficult for the
men to lose their way. The sergeant at once knocked
up Colonel Domlio, only to learn that he had not
seen or heard of either.</p>

<p>When the car was examined, the cause of the
stoppage was discovered. A short circuit had
developed in the magneto, which interfered with the
sparking to such an extent that the cylinder charges
could not be ignited.</p>

<p>French was a good deal disappointed by the
account. He had hoped that he was onto the solution
of his problem, but now he doubted it. That
Berlyn had murdered Pyke and sent off his body in the
crate had seemed at first sight a promising theory.
But French could see no evidence of foul play in the
story. It read merely as a straightforward
narrative of an unfortunate mishap.</p>

<p>At the same time the coincidence of the dates was
remarkable and French felt that he could not
dismiss the matter from his mind until he had satisfied
himself that it really was the accident for which it
had been taken.</p>

<p>He wondered if any tests were possible, and
gradually four considerations occurred to him.</p>

<p>First, there was the breakdown of the car. If
the breakdown had been an accident the whole
affair was almost certainly an accident, for he did
not think it possible that advantage could have
been taken of an unexpected incident to commit
the murder. The details of the disposal of the
crate had been too well worked out to have been
improvised. But if the breakdown had been faked
it meant foul play.</p>

<p>Secondly, a valuable check in all such investigations
was the making of a time-table. French felt
sure that if murder had been committed the car
must have gone from Tavistock to the works and
back to where it was found. If not, he did not
see how the body could have been taken to the
works. Probably, also, it had waited at the works
while the murderer was substituting the body for
the duplicator. Then the radiator must have been
hot when the car was abandoned, and it was cold
when Sergeant Daw arrived on the scene. If French
could find out how long all these operations would
have taken he might find that they could not have
been carried out in the time available.</p>

<p>Thirdly, French wondered if in a place of the
size of the Veda Works there was no night watchman,
and if there was, how the contents of the crate
could have been changed without his knowledge.</p>

<p>Lastly, there was the question of the disposal
of the duplicator. Assuming that murder had been
done, it was extremely probable that the murderer
had found the duplicator packed in the crate. How
could he have got rid of so heavy and cumbrous an
object?</p>

<p>If these four points were investigated French
thought he would obtain sufficient information to
settle the main question. It was, therefore, with a
second line of enquiries in his mind that he returned
to Ashburton and walked out to the Veda Works.</p>

<p>These stood a short distance beyond the town at
the end of North Street, and formed a rather
imposing collection of buildings, small but modern and
well designed. The principal block was of five
stories, showing narrow pilasters of cream-coloured
concrete separating wide glazed panels. The
remaining buildings were single-storey sheds. The
place seemed spotlessly clean and tidy.</p>

<p>French entered a door labelled “Office,” and
sending in his private card, asked for Mr. Fogden. He
was shown into a comfortably furnished room in
which a youngish man with a pleasant face sat at a
table desk.</p>

<p>“Good afternoon, Mr. French. Won’t you sit
down? What can I do for you, sir?”</p>

<p>“I should explain first who I am, Mr. Fogden.”
French handed over his official card. “I have called
on business which has already been brought to your
notice by the local sergeant. It is about the crate
which was sent by your firm to Mr. James B.
Stephenson at the G. W. Goods Station at Swansea.”</p>

<p>“I saw the sergeant when he called,” Mr. Fogden
answered, a trifle shortly. “That was yesterday,
and I gave him all the information at my disposal.”</p>

<p>“So he told me, sir.” French’s manner was very
suave. “My troubling you on the same business,
therefore, requires a little explanation. I must ask
you, however, to consider what I have to tell you
confidential. That crate which you sent to Swansea
was duly called for. It eventually reached Burry
Port. There it was opened—by the police. And
do you know what was found in it?”</p>

<p>Mr. Fogden stared at the other with a rapidly
growing interest.</p>

<p>“Good Heavens!” he cried. “You surely don’t
mean to say that it contained that body that we have
been reading so much about in the papers recently?”</p>

<p>French nodded.</p>

<p>“That’s it, Mr. Fogden. So you will see now
that it’s not idle curiosity which brings me here.
The matter is so serious that I must go into it
personally. I shall have to investigate the entire
history of that crate.”</p>

<p>“By Jove! I should think so. You don’t imagine,
I take it, that the body was in it when it left the
works?”</p>

<p>“I don’t, but of course I can’t be sure. I must
investigate all the possibilities.”</p>

<p>“That is reasonable.” Mr. Fogden paused, then
continued: “Now tell me what you want me to do
and I will carry out your wishes as well as I can.
I have already explained to the sergeant that the
crate contained a Veda Number Three duplicator,
a special product of the firm’s, and that it was
ordered by this Mr. Stephenson in a letter written
from the Euston Hotel. I can turn up the letter
for you.”</p>

<p>“Thank you, I should like to see the letter, but
as a matter of fact I should like a good deal more.
I am afraid I must follow the whole transaction
right through and interview everyone who dealt
with it.”</p>

<p>“I get you. Right. I’ll arrange it. Now first
as to the letter.”</p>

<p>He touched the bell and ordered a certain file
to be brought him. From this he took out a letter
and passed it to French.</p>



<h2>Chapter Six: The Despatch of the Crate</h2>

<p>The letter was written on a single sheet of cream-laid,
court-sized paper and bore the legend “Euston
Hotel, London. N. W. 1.” in blue type on its right
corner. It was typed in black, and French could
see that the machine used was not new and that
some of the letters were defective and out of place.
It was signed “James S. Stephenson” in a hand
which French instinctively felt was disguised, with
blue-black ink apparently of the fountain-pen type.
It read:</p>

<blockquote><div>

  <p class="dateline">12 August.</p>
  <p class="letterhead">Messrs. The Veda Office Equipment Manufacturing
    Co. Ltd.,</p>
  <p class="address">
    Ashburton,<br/>
    South Devon.<br/>
    Dear Sirs,</p>

  <p>I should be obliged if you would kindly forward to Mr.
  James S. Stephenson, Great Western Railway Goods Station,
  Morriston Road, Swansea, marked “To be kept till called for,”
  one of your patent Veda electric duplicators, No. 3, to take
  brief size. The motor to be wound for 220 volts D.C. and
  to have a flexible cord to plug into the main.</p>

  <p>Please have the machine delivered at Swansea not later than
  19th inst., as I wish to ship it from there on the following day.</p>

  <p>I enclose herewith money order value £62.10.0, the price, less
  discount, as given in your catalogue. Please advise receipt of
  money and despatch of duplicator to this hotel.</p>

  <p class="valediction">Yours faithfully,</p>
  <p class="signature">James S. Stephenson.</p>

</div></blockquote>

<p>There were here, French realised, several lines
of enquiry. Something might be learned at the
Euston Hotel. Unfortunately, the fact that the
letter was written on the hotel paper and the reply
was to be sent there did not mean that “Stephenson”
had stayed there. French remembered his
own letter from the Charing Cross Hotel to Dr.
Philpot in the Starvel case up in Yorkshire. But
enquiries could not be omitted. Then there was the
money order. It would be easy to learn the office
at which it had been obtained, and there was at least
the possibility that the purchaser had been
observed. Lastly there was the typewriter. French
felt sure that it could be identified from the
irregularities of the type.</p>

<p>“I may have this letter, I suppose?” he asked.</p>

<p>“Of course.”</p>

<p>He put the paper slowly away in his pocketbook
and then in his careful, competent way began to ask
questions.</p>

<p>“You sent the receipt and notification of the
despatch of the crate to the Euston Hotel?”</p>

<p>“Certainly.”</p>

<p>“What is the process of despatch? When that
order came in to whom did it go?”</p>

<p>“Well, I read it first and dropped it into a basket,
from which it went automatically to the accounts
department. Following the ordinary routine, the
money would be collected, and if all was O.K. an
order would go to the sales department for the
despatch of the goods. When the despatch had
taken place a notification in duplicate would be
returned to the office, and one copy, with the receipt,
would be mailed to the purchaser. The whole thing
is, of course, routine, and so far as I know that
routine was carried out in this case. But we can
see all concerned, if you like.”</p>

<p>“That’s just what I would like,” French declared.</p>

<p>“Come along, then.”</p>

<p>“There’s another thing, Mr. Fogden,” French
interposed. “I have told you my business because
I wanted your help. But I am anxious that no one
else suspects it. If I give out that the duplicator
was stolen and that you have employed me to find
the thief, will you back up the yarn?”</p>

<p>“Certainly. I am naturally anxious to have the
affair cleared up. But do you think you can keep
your real business secret?”</p>

<p>“I can for a time. But that may be long enough
for me to get my man.”</p>

<p>In the sales department French was first shown a
duplicator. It was an elaborate machine with the
usual large cylinder and ingenious devices for
turning out copies at high speed.</p>

<p>“What does it weigh?” he asked, when he had
duly admired it.</p>

<p>“About two hundredweight.”</p>

<p>“Do you always send them out in crates of the
same kind?”</p>

<p>“Always. The crate is specially made for the
purpose. Unfortunately, it is an odd size and
cannot be used for any of the other products.”</p>

<p>This was interesting. Did it, French wondered,
show an internal knowledge of the firm’s methods
on the part of “Stephenson”?</p>

<p>“Now about the actual despatch. You say an
order comes from the accounts department when
anything is to be sent out. Could I see this particular
order?”</p>

<p>Mr. Fogden looked through a file, finally producing
a tiny sheet of paper. But small as was the
chit, it was comprehensive. On it were given not
only all details of the duplicator and the address
of the consignee, but also Mr. Fogden’s O.K., the
initials of the storekeeper who had given out the
machine and the crate, of the packer who had
packed it, of the carter who had taken it to the
station, and of the railway goods clerk who had
received it, with the dates when all these things had
been done.</p>

<p>“By Jove!” French remarked when he had taken
all this in. “You don’t leave much to chance in
this establishment!”</p>

<p>“We believe in individual responsibility,” Mr.
Fogden explained. “If anything goes wrong we
can usually plant the blame on the right shoulders.”</p>

<p>“Well, it’s a help to me, at all events. Can I
see these men who have initialled this order?”</p>

<p>“Certainly. Come down to the stores.” Mr.
Fogden led the way to a large room furnished with
multitudinous bins containing thousands of articles
neatly stacked and each labelled with its code
number and with a card showing the stock. Owing to its
opposite walls being composed almost entirely of
glass, there was a brilliant light everywhere. French
marvelled at the cleanliness and tidiness of
everything and expressed his admiration of the way the
place was kept.</p>

<p>“This,” continued Mr. Fogden, whose heart was
evidently reached by French’s comments, “is what
we call the part store. Here are the parts of all our
machines arranged in sets. Here, for example, are
small parts. Those bins carry lock rods for card
indexes, those ball-bearing rollers for file cases, those
rings for loose-leaf books, and so on. Over there
you get the wooden parts—panels for vertical file
cabinets, multiple bookcases, parts of desks and
chairs. We carry a definite stock of each part, and
every time it drops to a definite number an order
automatically goes to the works department for a
new lot to be made.”</p>

<p>“Good system.”</p>

<p>“We have to do it or we should get wrong. I’ll
show you now the erecting shop. This way.”</p>

<p>They passed into a large room where a score or
more men were busily engaged in putting together
machines of every type and kind. But they did
not halt there long. After a general look round
Mr. Fogden led the way across the shop and through
another door.</p>

<p>“This,” he said, “is our completed-articles store.
Here we keep our products ready for immediate
despatch. We stock a certain number of each class, and
the same arrangement holds good with regard to the
parts. Directly a number falls to the minimum, an
order automatically goes to the assembly department
to build so many new pieces. That keeps our
stock right. Of course, an order for a large
number of pieces has to be dealt with specially. For
example, we always keep a minimum of twelve
Number One duplicators complete and ready to go out,
and that enables us to supply incidental orders
without delay. But when an order for fifty comes in,
as we had yesterday from the Argentine, we have
to manufacture specially.”</p>

<p>French murmured appreciatively.</p>

<p>“With regard to the Number Three duplicators,”
went on Mr. Fogden, pointing to the machines in
question, “we always keep a minimum of three in
stock. They are not in such demand as the
Number Ones. Now let me see.” He compared the
order with the bin or stock card. “Only two of
these have gone out since the one you are interested
in. I dare say the men will remember yours.” He
referred again to the order. “Packed by John
Puddicoombe. . . . Here, Puddicoombe. A
moment.”</p>

<p>An elderly man approached.</p>

<p>“Do you happen to remember packing a duplicator
of this type on fifteenth of August last? It was
a Monday and there’s the docket.”</p>

<p>The man scratched his head. “I don’t know as
I do, sir,” he answered, slowly. “You see, I pack
that many and they’re all the same. But I packed
it, all right, if I signed for it.”</p>

<p>“Where did you pack it?” French asked.</p>

<p>“In packing-shed next door,” the man replied,
after an interrogatory glance at his chief.</p>

<p>“Come in and see the place,” Mr. Fogden
suggested, and they moved to a smaller room, the next
in the series.</p>

<p>“You packed it in here,” French went on. “Now
tell me, did you close up the crate here?”</p>

<p>“Yes, as soon as the duplicator was properly in
I got the lid on. I always do.”</p>

<p>“Got the lid on and made it fast?”</p>

<p>“Yes, nailed it down.”</p>

<p>“And was the crate despatched that same day?”</p>

<p>“No,” Mr. Fogden intervened. “The dates show
that it lay here that night. It was sent out the
following day.”</p>

<p>“Ah, that’s what I want to get at,” said French.
“Now where did it lie all night?”</p>

<p>“Here,” the packer declared. “It was packed
here and lay here until the lorry came for it the
next day.”</p>

<p>“But if you don’t remember this particular case?”
French persisted. “Don’t mind my asking. The
matter is important.”</p>

<p>The packer regarded him with what seemed
compassion and replied with a tolerant forbearance.</p>

<p>“I know because that’s what’s always done and
there weren’t no exception in the case of any
machine,” he replied, conclusively.</p>

<p>This seemed to end the matter as far as
Puddicoombe was concerned, and French next asked to
see the carter who had taken it to the station.</p>

<p>The man, fortunately, was available, and French
questioned him minutely. He stated he remembered
the occasion in question. On the Tuesday morning
he had loaded up the crate, Puddicoombe assisting.
It was lifted by a differential and pushed out of the
packing-shed on a small overhead runway and
lowered on to the lorry. He had driven it to the
station, unloading it in the goods-shed, and had
obtained the usual signature. He had not allowed it
out of his sight all the time it was in his charge
and it was quite impossible that its contents could
have been tampered with.</p>

<p>“I shall see the station people, of course,” French
declared to Mr. Fogden when they returned to the
latter’s office, “though I don’t suppose the crate
could have been tampered with during the journey.
What you have told me has satisfied me as to its
stay here except on one point. Could the duplicator
have been taken out during the night?”</p>

<p>Mr. Fogden believed it impossible.</p>

<p>“We have a night watchman,” he explained;
“quite a reliable old fellow, too. Nothing could
have been done without his knowledge.”</p>

<p>“Could I see him?”</p>

<p>“Of course. But you’ll have to wait while I send
for him.”</p>

<p>After some time an office boy ushered in a wizened
old man with a goatee beard who answered to the
name of Gurney. He blinked at French out of a
pair of bright little eyes like some wise old bird,
and spoke with a pleasing economy of words.</p>

<p>He came on duty, he said, each evening at seven
o’clock, relieving one of the late stokers, who kept
an eye on things between the closing of the works at
5.15 and that hour. His first care was to examine
the boilers of the electric power plant, of which he
had charge during the night, then he invariably made
an inspection of the whole premises. For part of
the time he sat in the boiler-house, but on at least
three other occasions he walked round and made
sure everything was in order. The boiler fires were
banked and did not give much trouble, but he had to
watch the pressure gauges and occasionally to adjust
the dampers. At six in the morning he was relieved
by the early stokers and he then went home.</p>

<p>He declared that it would be impossible for
anyone to tamper with the goods in the packing-shed
unknown to him. The packing-shed and the boiler-house
were at opposite sides of a narrow yard, and
should the light be turned on in the former no one
in the latter could fail to see it.</p>

<p>He remembered the Monday night in question,
because it was that on which Mr. Berlyn and Mr.
Pyke had lost their lives. On that night he had
come on duty as usual and had gone his customary
rounds. He was very emphatic that no one had
entered the works during his period of duty.</p>

<p>Though the man’s character was vouched for by
Mr. Fogden and though he made his statement
without hesitation, French was conscious of a slight
dissatisfaction. His perception of the reliability of
witnesses had become so acute from long experience
as to be practically intuitive. He did not think that
Gurney was lying, but he felt that he was protesting
more strongly than the occasion warranted. He
therefore took him aside and questioned him
severely in the hope of inducing some give-away
emotion. But in this he failed. The watchman
answered without embarrassment and French was
forced to the conclusion that his suspicions were
unfounded. From the boiler-house he saw for
himself the effect of turning up the light in the
packing-shed, with the result that Gurney’s statement on
this point was confirmed. Then he examined the
stokers who had been in charge before and after
Gurney, but their statements as to visitors were the
same as the watchman’s. As far as oral testimony
went, therefore, it was impossible that the crate
could have been interfered with while it lay at the
works.</p>

<p>French next betook himself to the station. But
there he learned only what he expected. While
no one actually remembered the transaction, its
complete records were available. The crate had been
received on Tuesday morning, the 16th of August,
and had been unloaded in the goods-shed and put
immediately into a wagon for Plymouth. From
the time it arrived until it left by the 11.35 <small>A.M.</small>
goods-train no one could have tampered with it,
two porters being continuously about.</p>

<p>As after dinner that night French wrote up his
report, he was conscious of a good deal of
disappointment. The attractive theory that the remains
were those of Pyke was not obtaining support. He
had now gone into two of the four test-points he had
considered and the evidence on each of them was
against it. Unless he could find some way round
these difficulties, it followed that the body <em>must</em>
have been put in after the crate had reached
Swansea.</p>

<p>The other two test-points, however, remained to
be investigated—the cause of the breakdown and
the possible running time-tables of the car.</p>

<p>French decided, therefore, that unless there was
news from Howells in the morning he would carry
on with these.</p>



<h2>Chapter Seven: Dartmoor</h2>

<p>French saw that in order to get the information
he required he must confide in some one who knew
the locality. He therefore went down next morning
to the police station to consult Sergeant Daw.</p>

<p>“Good morning, Sergeant,” he said, with his
pleasant smile. “Do you think we could go into
your office? I should like to have a chat with you.”</p>

<p>Daw was not accustomed to this mode of
approach from superior officers, and he at once became
mellow and ready to help.</p>

<p>“Quite at your service, sir,” he protested.</p>

<p>“I didn’t tell you, Sergeant, just what I was after
here. You’ve read about that body that was found
in the sea off Burry Port?”</p>

<p>The sergeant looked up with evident interest.</p>

<p>“I just thought that was it, Mr. French, when
your phone message came through. Do you mean
that the body came from the works here?”</p>

<p>“The crate came from here, all right, but where
the body was put in I don’t know. That’s where I
want your help. Can you give me any suggestions?”</p>

<p>The sergeant, flattered by French’s attitude,
wrinkled his brow in thought.</p>

<p>“Did anyone, for example, leave the place or
disappear some five or six weeks ago?” went on French.</p>

<p>“No, sir,” Daw answered, slowly. “I can’t say
that they did.”</p>

<p>“What about Mr. Berlyn and Mr. Pyke?”</p>

<p>Daw’s face showed first surprise and then
incredulity.</p>

<p>“You don’t doubt they were lost on the moor?”
French continued.</p>

<p>“It never occurred to me to doubt it. Do you
think otherwise yourself?”</p>

<p>“Well, look here, Sergeant.” French leaned
forward and demonstrated with his forefinger. “Those
men disappeared on Monday night, the fifteenth of
August. I say disappeared, because in point of fact
they did disappear—their bodies were never found.
On that same night the crate lay packed in the
works, and next morning it was taken to the
station and sent to Swansea. From that Tuesday
morning until the body was found at Burry Port
we cannot trace any opportunity of opening the
crate. You must admit it looks suggestive.”</p>

<p>“But the accident, sir? The breakdown of the
car?”</p>

<p>“That’s it, Sergeant. You’ve got it in one. If
the breakdown was genuine the affair was an
accident, but if it was faked—why, then we are on to
a murder. At least that’s how it strikes me.”</p>

<p>Daw was apologetic, but evidently still sceptical.</p>

<p>“But do you suggest that both Mr. Berlyn and
Mr. Pyke were murdered? If so, where’s the
second body?”</p>

<p>“What if one murdered the other?”</p>

<p>But this was too much for the sergeant.</p>

<p>“Oh, come now, sir,” he protested. “You didn’t
know them. You couldn’t suspect either of those
gentlemen of such a crime. Not possibly, you
couldn’t.”</p>

<p>“You think not? But what if I tell you that the
man who claimed the crate at Swansea answered the
description you gave me of Berlyn?”</p>

<p>Sergeant Daw swore. “I shouldn’t have believed
it,” he declared.</p>

<p>“Well, there are the facts. You will see, therefore,
that I must have first-hand information about
the whole thing. I’ve read all that the papers can
tell me, but that’s not enough. I want to go out
on the moor with you and hear your story at the
place where the thing happened. Particularly I
want to test that matter of the breakdown. How
can we get to know about that?”</p>

<p>“Easily enough, I think.” The man spoke with
some relief, as if turning to a pleasanter subject.
“Makepeace has the car and he’ll be able to tell
us. That’s the owner of one of the local garages.”</p>

<p>“Good! How did Makepeace get hold of it?”</p>

<p>“When we came in after finding it that night I
sent young Makepeace out for it. That’s the son.
He couldn’t start it and he had to take out another
car and tow it in. He took it to the garage for
repairs and it has lain there ever since. Then
when Mrs. Berlyn was leaving, Makepeace bought
it from her. I understand he wants to sell it now.”</p>

<p>French rose.</p>

<p>“Good!” he said again. “Then let us go to this
Makepeace and see if it is still there. You might
introduce me as a friend who wants a second-hand
car and who might take Mr. Berlyn’s. If possible
we’ll get it out and do the same run that those
men did that night. I want to get some times.
Are you a driver?”</p>

<p>“Yes, I can handle it all right.”</p>

<p>The Makepeace garage was a surprisingly large
establishment for so small a town. At least a dozen
cars stood in the long low shed, and there were
lorries and char-à-bancs in the yard behind. Daw
hailed a youth who was polishing the brasswork of
one of the “charries.”</p>

<p>“Your father about, John?”</p>

<p>Mr. Makepeace, it appeared, was in the office,
and thither the two men walked, to be greeted by
a stout individual with smiling lips and shrewd eyes.</p>

<p>“ ’Morning, sergeant! Looking for me?”</p>

<p>The sergeant nodded. “This is a friend of mine,”
he explained, “who is looking for a good second-hand
car. I told him about Mr. Berlyn’s, but I
didn’t know whether you had it still. We came
across to enquire.”</p>

<p>“It’s here, all right, and I can afford to sell it
cheap.” Mr. Makepeace turned to French. “What
kind of machine were you wanting, sir?”</p>

<p>“A medium-size four-seater, but I’m not particular
as to make. If I saw one I liked I would take it.”</p>

<p>“This is a first-rate car,” Mr. Makepeace
declared, firmly. “One that I can stand over. But
I’m afraid she’s not very clean. I was going to
have her revarnished and the bright parts plated.
She’ll be as good as new then. You can see her in
the back house.”</p>

<p>He led the way to a workshop containing a variety
of cars undergoing repairs. Just inside the door
was a small dark-blue four-seater touring car,
looking a trifle the worse for wear. To this he pointed.</p>

<p>“A first-rate car,” he repeated, “and in good
order, too, though wanting a bit of a clean-up. As
you can see, she’s a fifteen-twenty Mercury, two
years old, but the engine’s as good as the day it
was made. Have a look over her.”</p>

<p>French knew something of cars, though he was
no expert. But by saying little and looking wise
he impressed the other with his knowledge. Finally
he admitted that everything seemed satisfactory,
though he would require an expert’s opinion before
coming to a decision.</p>

<p>“Could I have a run in it?” he asked. “I should,
of course, pay for its hire. I want to go over to
Tavistock, and if you could let me have the car it
would suit. Mr. Daw says he will take half a day’s
leave and drive me.”</p>

<p>Mr. Makepeace agreed with alacrity, and when
he understood that his prospective customer was
ready to start then and there, he put his entire staff
on to “take the rough off her.” French stood watching
the operation while he chatted pleasantly with
the proprietor. Having duly admired the vehicle,
he went on in a more serious voice:</p>

<p>“There’s just one thing that puts me against
taking her, and that’s something that Mr. Daw told
me in the course of conversation. He said that on
that night when Mr. Berlyn met his death the car
broke down, in fact that it was that breakdown
which led indirectly to the accident. Well, I don’t
want a car that breaks down. If she’s not reliable,
she’s no good to me.”</p>

<p>Mr. Makepeace looked pained and flashed a
rather indignant glance at the sergeant.</p>

<p>“She did break down that night,” he admitted,
reluctantly, “but there’s no machinery on earth that
won’t <em>sometimes</em> go wrong. She failed from a most
uncommon cause, and she might run for twenty
years without the same thing happening to her
again.”</p>

<p>“I’m not doubting your word, Mr. Makepeace,
but I shall want that clearly demonstrated before
I think of her. What was it that went wrong?”</p>

<p>“Magneto trouble; armature burnt out.”</p>

<p>“What caused it?”</p>

<p>“It’s hard to say; there was no defect showing
outwardly. Careless handling, most likely. Some
darned mechanic might have jabbed a screwdriver
into the wire and covered up the mark. I’ve known
that to happen.”</p>

<p>“But it surely wouldn’t run if that had been
done?”</p>

<p>“Oh yes, it might. If the insulation wasn’t
completely cut through it would run for a time. But
eventually the short would develop, causing the
engine to misfire, and that would get worse till it
stopped altogether.”</p>

<p>“That’s interesting. Then you think the fault
would only develop if there had been some original
injury?”</p>

<p>“I don’t say that. I have known cases of short
circuits occurring and you couldn’t tell what caused
them.”</p>

<p>“I suppose you could do that sort of thing
purposely if you wanted to?”</p>

<p>“Purposely?” Mr. Makepeace shot a keen
glance at his questioner.</p>

<p>“Yes. Suppose in this case some one wanted to
play a practical joke on Mr. Berlyn.”</p>

<p>Mr. Makepeace shook his head with some scorn.</p>

<p>“Not blooming likely,” he declared. “A fine
sort of joke that would be.”</p>

<p>“I was asking purely from curiosity, but you
surprise me, all the same. I thought you could short
circuit any electric machine?”</p>

<p>“Don’t you believe it. You couldn’t do nothing
to short an armature without the damage showing.”</p>

<p>“Well, I’m not worrying whether you could or
not. All I want is that it won’t fail again.”</p>

<p>“You may go nap on that.”</p>

<p>“All right,” French smiled. “Did you rewind
the armature yourselves?”</p>

<p>“Neither unwound it nor rewound it. That’s a
job for the makers. We sent it to London. It’s an
Ardlo magneto and the Ardlo people have a factory
in Bermondsey.”</p>

<p>“That so? I suppose the short circuit was the
only trouble? The engine hadn’t been hot or
anything?”</p>

<p>“The engine was as right as rain,” Mr. Makepeace
asseverated with ill-repressed impatience.</p>

<p>“I’m glad to know that. I asked because I’ve
known trouble through shortage of water in the
radiator. I suppose there was plenty that night?”</p>

<p>“The radiator was full; my son noticed it
particularly. You see, on account of the mascot
sticking out behind, you have to take off the radiator cap
before you can lift the bonnet. When he was taking
off the cap he noticed the water.”</p>

<p>French turned as if to close the discussion.</p>

<p>“I don’t think I need worry about the chance of
more trouble with it,” he agreed. “Surely, Mr.
Makepeace, you have her clean enough now? I
think we’ll get away.”</p>

<p>As they swung out along the Tavistock road
French’s heart had fallen to the depths. If what
this garage owner said were true, the Berlyn-Pyke
affair was an accident and he, French, was on the
wrong track. However, he had made his plans and
he would carry them out. Banishing his disappointment
from his mind, he prepared to enjoy his trip.</p>

<p>The road led from the west end of the town
through scenery which was more than enough to
hold his attention. The country was charmingly
wooded, but extraordinarily hilly. Never had
French seen such hills. No sooner had they climbed
interminably out of one valley than they were over
the divide and dropping down an equally break-neck
precipice into the next. French was interested in
the notices to motor drivers adjuring them to put
their cars into lowest gear before attempting to
descend. Three of these well-wooded valleys they
crossed—the last the famous meeting of the waters,
Dartmeet—and each had its dangerously narrow
bridge approached by sharp right-angled bends. The
climb beyond Dartmeet took them up on to the open
moor, wild, lonely, rolling in great sweeps of
heather-clad country like the vast swelling waves of
some mighty petrified ocean. Here and there these
huge sweeps ran up into jagged rocky crests, as if
the dancing foam of the caps had been arrested in
midair and turned into grim shapes of black stone.
Once before French had been on Dartmoor, when
he had gone down to Princeton to see one of the
unfortunates in the great prison. But he had not
then been out on the open moor, and he felt
impressed by the wide spaces and the desolation.</p>

<p>The sergeant’s attention being fully occupied with
his wheel, he proved himself a silent companion, and,
beyond pointing out the various objects of interest,
made no attempt at conversation. Mostly in silence
they drove some eight or nine miles, and then
suddenly the man pulled up.</p>

<p>“This is the place, sir.”</p>

<p>It was the loneliest spot French had yet seen.
On both sides stretched the moor, rolling away into
the distance. To the north the ground rose gently;
to the south it fell to the valley of a river before
swelling up to a line of more distant highlands. Some
three miles to the west lay the grey buildings of
Princeton, the only human habitations visible save
for a few isolated cottages dotted about at wide
intervals. The road was unfenced and ran in a snaky
line across the greens and browns of the heather and
rough grass. Here and there spots of brighter
green showed, and to these the sergeant pointed.</p>

<p>“Those are soft places,” he said. “Over there
towards the south is Fox Tor Mire, a biggish
swamp, and there are others in the same direction.
On the north side are small patches, but nothing like
the others.”</p>

<p>“In which direction did the men go?”</p>

<p>“Northwards.” The sergeant walked a few yards
down the road, expounding as he did so. “The
car was pulled in to the side of the road here. There
is the patch of sandy soil that the footsteps crossed,
and that is the direction they were going in.”</p>

<p>“Which way was the car heading?”</p>

<p>“Towards Ashburton.”</p>

<p>“Were the lamps lighted?”</p>

<p>“Yes, sir. Small lamps, burning dimly, but good
enough to show the car was there.”</p>

<p>“It was a dark night?”</p>

<p>“Very dark for the time of year.”</p>

<p>French nodded.</p>

<p>“Now when you came out here tell me what you
did.”</p>

<p>“I looked round, and when I couldn’t see anyone
I felt the radiator and opened the bonnet and looked
at and felt the engine. Both were cold, but I
couldn’t see anything wrong. Then I took the lamp
off my bicycle and looked further around. I found
the footsteps—if you’ve read the papers you’ll know
about them—and I wondered where they could be
heading to. I thought of Colonel Domlio’s and
I went to the house and roused the colonel.”</p>

<p>“Across the moor?”</p>

<p>“Yes, sir.”</p>

<p>“But were you not afraid of the quagmires?”</p>

<p>“No. It was then a clear night and I had a good
acetylene lamp. I thought maybe the gentlemen
had met with an accident on the way and that I’d
better go over the ground. I walked carefully and
kept on hard earth all the way.”</p>

<p>“Well, you aroused the colonel?”</p>

<p>“Yes, sir, and a job I had to do it. But he could
give me no help.”</p>

<p>“Yes? And then?”</p>

<p>“Colonel Domlio wanted to come out with me,
but I said there was nothing he could do. I left
Constable Hughes with the car and ran back into
Ashburton to give the news. I told Mrs. Berlyn
and then I got all my men out with lamps and we
went back and began a detailed search of the ground.
We kept it up until the whole place had been gone
over by daylight, but we found nothing.”</p>

<p>“Now this Colonel Domlio. What kind of man
is he?”</p>

<p>“A rather peculiar man, if I may say so. He’s
practically the owner of the Veda Company now
since Mr. Berlyn’s gone. He lives here alone except
for the servants. There’s a man and his wife
indoors and a gardener and a chauffeur outside. He
must have plenty of money, the colonel.”</p>

<p>“There’s nothing out of the way in all that. Why
did you call him peculiar?”</p>

<p>“Well, just his living alone. He doesn’t have
much to say to the neighbours, by all accounts. Then
he catches insects about the moor and sits up half
the night writing about them. They say he’s writing
a book.”</p>

<p>“What age is he?”</p>

<p>“About forty-five, I should say.”</p>

<p>“Well, that’s all we can do here. Let’s get on to
Tavistock.”</p>

<p>French enjoyed the remainder of the drive as
much as any he had ever taken. He was immensely
impressed by the mournful beauty of the scenery.
They passed Two Bridges, presently striking off
from the Plymouth road. On the left the great
grey buildings of the prison appeared, with rugged
North Hessary Tor just beyond and the farm staffed
by the prisoners in the foreground. The road led
on almost due west until after passing the splendid
outlook of Moorshop and descending more
break-neck hills they reached cultivated ground and
Tavistock.</p>

<p>They had driven fast, and less the time they had
stopped on the road, the run had taken just
sixty-three minutes. The car had behaved excellently,
and if French had really been contemplating its
purchase he would have been well satisfied with the
test.</p>

<p>“I want to find out how long the radiator took
to cool on that night,” French said. “The point is
whether the car would have done any further
running, after its trip from here to the place where it
was abandoned. If it takes three hours or more to
cool, it couldn’t; if less, it might.”</p>

<p>“I follow, but I’m afraid that won’t be easy to
find out.”</p>

<p>“Why not?”</p>

<p>“Well, it depends on the weather and specially
the wind. I used to drive and I know something
about it. If there’s a wind blowing into the
radiator it’ll cool about twice as quickly as if the same
wind was blowing from behind the car.”</p>

<p>“I can understand that,” French admitted. “How
was the wind that night?”</p>

<p>“A very faint westerly breeze—scarcely
noticeable.”</p>

<p>“That would be behind the car. Then if we try
it to-day in any pretty sheltered place we ought to
get, roughly speaking, the same result? The
temperature’s about the same to-day as it was that
night, I should think?”</p>

<p>“That’s so, sir, the weather conditions are as
good for a test as you’ll get. But even so, it will be
only a rough guide.”</p>

<p>“We’ll try it, anyway. Park somewhere and we’ll
go and have some lunch.”</p>

<p>They left the car in front of the fine old parish
church while they lunched and explored the town.
Then returning to the car, they sat down to wait.
At intervals they felt the radiator, until, just three
and a half hours after their arrival, the last
sensation of warmth vanished.</p>

<p>“That’s three hours and thirty minutes,” Daw
declared, “but I don’t think you would be wise to take
that too literally. If you say something between
three and four hours you won’t be far wrong.”</p>

<p>“I agree, Sergeant. That’s all we want. Let’s
get home.”</p>

<p>That evening French sat down to write up his
notes and to consider the facts he had learned.</p>

<p>The more he thought over these facts, the more
dissatisfied he grew. It certainly did not look as
if his effort to connect the Berlyn-Pyke tragedy with
the crate affair was going to be successful. And if
it failed it left him where he had started. He had
no alternative theory on which to work.</p>

<p>He recalled the four points by which he had
hoped to test the matter. On each of these he had
now obtained information, but in each case the
information tended against the theory he wished to
establish.</p>

<p>First there was the breakdown of the car. Was
that an accident or had it been prearranged?</p>

<p>Obviously, if it had been an accident it could not
have been part of the criminal’s plan. Therefore,
neither could the resulting disappearance of Berlyn
and Pyke. Therefore, the murderer must have
been out after some other victim whose disappearance
he had masked so cleverly that it had not yet
been discovered.</p>

<p>Now, Makepeace had stated definitely that the
breakdown could not have been faked. Of course
it would be necessary to have this opinion confirmed
by the makers of the magneto. But Makepeace had
seemed so sure that French did not doubt his
statement.</p>

<p>The second point concerned the movements of the
car on the fatal night. French began by asking
himself the question: Assuming the murdered man
was Pyke, how had his body been taken to the
works?</p>

<p>He could only see one way—in the car. Suppose
the murder was committed on the way from
Tavistock. What then? The murderer would drive to
the works with the dead man in the car. This,
French believed, would be possible without
discovery, owing to the distance the works lay from
the town. He would then in some way square the
night watchman, unpack the duplicator, put the body
in its place, load the duplicator into the back of the
car, drive off, somehow get rid of the duplicator,
return to the road near Colonel Domlio’s house,
make the two lines of footprints and decamp.</p>

<p>At first sight this obvious explanation seemed
encouraging to French. Then he wondered would
there be time for all these operations?</p>

<p>Taking the results of the tests he had made and
estimating times where he had no actual data, he
set himself to produce a hypothetical time-table of
the whole affair. It was a form of reconstruction
which he had found valuable on many previous
occasions. It read:</p>

<table class="timetable">
<tbody><tr>
<td class="f">Tavistock depart <br/>
    A fast daylight run had taken 63 minutes—for night say 70.
    Add for actual murder 5 minutes. <br/>
    Then</td>
<td class="t">10.50</td><td class="m">P. M.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Veda Works arrive</td>
<td class="t">12.05</td><td class="m">A. M.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Open gates and get car placed under differential, close gates</td>
<td class="t">12.10</td><td class="m">A. M.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Square watchman and lift out body</td>
<td class="t">12.25</td><td class="m">〃</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Open crate carefully so as not to damage lid</td>
<td class="t">12.30</td><td class="m">〃</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Lift out duplicator and place it in car</td>
<td class="t">12.40</td><td class="m">〃</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Take outer clothes off body</td>
<td class="t">12.50</td><td class="m">〃</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Place body in crate</td>
<td class="t">1.00</td><td class="m">〃</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Make good the lid of crate</td>
<td class="t">1.05</td><td class="m">〃</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>Take car out of works and lock gates</td>
<td class="t">1.10</td><td class="m">〃</td>
</tr>
</tbody></table>

<p>After leaving the works the murderer had to get
rid of the duplicator. French could not estimate
this item, as he had no idea how the thing could
have been done. But it had certainly taken half
an hour. That would make it 1.40 <small>A.M.</small> At least
another half-hour would have been spent in
returning to the site of the mock tragedy, bringing the
time up to 2.00 <small>A.M.</small></p>

<p>The engine and radiator had then gradually to
cool, for there was no water on that part of the
moor to cool them artificially. From his experiment
French felt sure that this would have taken at least
three hours. In other words, there would have been
traces of heat up till about five o’clock. And that
at the very earliest possible.</p>

<p>But the sergeant found the car at 3.35 and it
was then cold. It was therefore impossible that it
could have been used to carry the victim to the
works as French had assumed. And if it had not
been so used how could the body have been
transported? There was no way without introducing an
accomplice and another car, which on the face of it
seemed improbable.</p>

<p>It would, he saw, have been possible to take the
body to the works in the car if the vehicle had
immediately returned to the moor. But this not only
postulated an accomplice, but overlooked the
duplicator. If the car had been used to dispose of the
duplicator, it would have been warm when the
sergeant found it.</p>

<p>The third point was the squaring of the night
watchman. The more French thought over this,
the more impossible it seemed. In an ordinary
matter the man might easily have been corrupted, but
unless he had some irresistible motive he would
never have risked his neck by aiding and abetting a
murder. And he could not have been deceived as
to what was taking place. Even supposing that he
had been at the time, next day’s discovery would
have made clear what he had assisted in.</p>

<p>But even suppose he had been squared, it did not
clear the matter up. In this case French did not
believe he could have sustained his interrogation
without giving himself away. He would have
guessed what lay behind the questions and would
have shown fear. No, French was satisfied the man
had no suspicion of anything so grave as murder,
and it seemed impossible that the body could have
been put into the crate without making the terrible
fact clear.</p>

<p>The fourth test point seemed equally convincing.
If the body had been put into the crate in the works,
where was the duplicator? It could not have been
left in the works. The store-keeping methods would
have revealed it long before this. Could it have
been taken out?</p>

<p>French could not imagine any way in which it
could have been done. The duplicator was a big
machine and heavy. It could not have been lifted
by less than three or four people. Of course there
was the runway and differential, but even these
would only have lifted it out of the crate on to a car
or lorry. To have unloaded it secretly would
involve the existence of a second differential in some
place available only to the murderer, a far-fetched
hypothesis, though no doubt possible.</p>

<p>But what finally convinced French was the
consideration that if the murderer really had been able
to dispose secretly of so bulky an object, he would
surely have used this method to get rid of the body
and thus have saved the whole complex business of
the crate.</p>

<p>French felt deeply disappointed as he found
himself forced to these conclusions. A promising theory
had gone west and he was left as far from a solution
of his problem as when he took it up. Moreover,
up to the present at all events, the Yard had been
unable to learn anything at the St. Pancras or
Euston hotels of either “John F. Stewart” or “James
S. Stephenson.” Evidently in this case, as in most
others, there was no royal road to success. He must
simply go on trying to amass information in the
ordinary humdrum routine way, in the hope that
sooner or later he might come on some fact which
would throw the desired light on the affair.</p>

<p>Tired and not a little out of sorts, he turned in.</p>



<h2>Chapter Eight: A Fresh Start</h2>

<p>It is wonderful what an effect a good night’s
sleep and a bright morning will have on the mind
of a healthy man. French had gone to bed tired and
worried about this case. He woke cheery and
optimistic, philosophic as to his reverses, and hopeful
for the future.</p>

<p>On such a morning, indeed, it was impossible that
anyone could be despondent. Though October had
begun, the sun shone with a thin brilliancy reminiscent
of early summer. The air, floating up gently
from the garden in the rear of the hotel, was
surprisingly warm and aromatic for the time of
year. Birds were singing in the trees and there was
a faint hum of insects from below. As he looked
out of his window French felt that life was good
and that to squander it in sleep was little better than
a sin.</p>

<p>He breakfasted at his leisure, then lighting his
pipe, he sauntered out into the little town to take
what he called “a turn” before settling down to the
serious work of the day.</p>

<p>Though his conclusions of the previous evening
still seemed incontrovertible, he was surprised to
find that his sense of disappointment had vanished.
At first he thought this was due simply to his night’s
rest, then gradually he realised the reason.</p>

<p>In his heart of hearts he distrusted these
conclusions. In spite of the difficulties involved, he was
not satisfied that the Berlyn-Pyke affair should be
eliminated from the case.</p>

<p>The murderer had shown himself an extremely
ingenious man. Could it not be that these seeming
impossibilities were really intentionally designed to
throw investigating detectives off the scent?</p>

<p>French reconsidered the strength of the
coincidences otherwise involved.</p>

<p>A disappearance at a certain time and place was
required to account for the body in the crate. At
that very time and place, and there only, a
disappearance was known to have occurred. French
could not bring himself to dismiss the possibility of
a connection between the two facts.</p>

<p>He decided that he had not exhausted the
possibilities. He must learn more about Berlyn and
Pyke.</p>

<p>For preliminary enquiries Sergeant Daw seemed
the most hopeful source of information, and he lost
no time in walking down to the police station and
asking his help.</p>

<p>“I want to know who everybody is, Sergeant.
You know the local people and you might tell me
something which would give me the hint I am
looking for.”</p>

<p>The sergeant did not think this likely, but he was
willing to do anything to oblige.</p>

<p>“Very good. Then I’ll ask questions. First of
all, will you tell me what you can about Mr.
Berlyn?”</p>

<p>Daw put on his best police-court manner and
proceeded to deliver himself.</p>

<p>“Mr. Berlyn was junior partner at the works. I
understand that some eight or nine years ago he
and Colonel Domlio bought up nearly the whole of
the stock between them. Mr. Berlyn dealt with
the commercial side and attended the office every
day as if he was an official, but the colonel looked
on the business as a hobby. He acted as a sort of
consulting engineer and only went to the works
when it pleased him. I believe there are other
directors, but in practice they don’t amount to
anything.”</p>

<p>“Was Mr. Berlyn liked?”</p>

<p>“As a matter of fact, sir, he wasn’t altogether
popular among the work people. From what I’ve
heard, he wanted too much and he wouldn’t make
allowances for people making mistakes. It was
get on or get out with him, and you know yourself,
Mr. French, that if that’s pushed too far it doesn’t
always work. But he was straight enough and what
he said he stuck to.”</p>

<p>“A man like that would make enemies. Do you
know of anyone he was on bad terms with?”</p>

<p>“No, sir. No one.”</p>

<p>“He hadn’t his knife in Mr. Pyke, for instance?”</p>

<p>“Not to my knowledge.”</p>

<p>“Was Mr. Berlyn married?”</p>

<p>“Yes, four or five years ago. Very pleasant lady,
Mrs. Berlyn.”</p>

<p>“Any children?”</p>

<p>“No, sir.”</p>

<p>“Where did they live?”</p>

<p>“Out along the Buckland road about ten minutes’
walk from the works. Place called Soller. They
say it’s the name of some foreign town where he’d
met the lady and popped the question, but of course
I don’t know anything about that.”</p>

<p>“Then he was a traveller, Mr. Berlyn?”</p>

<p>“Yes; used to go away to France and such places
when he had holidays.”</p>

<p>“Wise man,” French commented. “And how
did the match turn out?”</p>

<p>For the first time the sergeant hesitated.</p>

<p>“There, Mr. French, you have me. I couldn’t
really tell you. From all accounts they got on as
well as most people whose tastes differ. He was
quiet and liked sitting at home in the evenings, and
she wanted a bit of life. There’s not much of what
you might call gaiety in this town, as you may guess,
but whatever there was Mrs. Berlyn was in the
centre of it. At first he used to go out with her to
Torquay and so on, but he gradually gave that up
and she had to find some one else to go with or stay
at home.”</p>

<p>“And she found some one?”</p>

<p>“Any number. The gentlemen up at the works,
mostly. They were all glad to go with her! Colonel
Domlio had been taking her about lately—I mean
before Mr. Berlyn’s death—and before that it was
Mr. Pyke and sometimes Mr. Cowls, the engineer.
She was friends, too, with Dr. and Mrs. Lancaster,
and I’ve often seen her out with people called
Tucker that live close by.”</p>

<p>All this seemed suggestive to French and his
facile brain was already building up tentative
theories.</p>

<p>“Was there ever any suggestion of anything
between Mrs. Berlyn and any of those men?”</p>

<p>“There was a bit of talk at one time, but I don’t
believe there was anything in it.”</p>

<p>“But there was talk. Just tell me what was said.”</p>

<p>“She was talked about with Mr. Pyke. They
certainly saw a deal of each other at one time. He
was constantly at the house and they went out
motoring together. She was a top-hole driver.”</p>

<p>“You say they saw a deal of each other at one
time. Did that not continue?”</p>

<p>“It was supposed to come to an end about four
months before the tragedy. But that’s only local
gossip and I can’t vouch for it. All the same, I
don’t remember seeing them motoring since, except
once when Mr. Pyke’s cousin came for three or four
days.”</p>

<p>“And you have no idea what happened?”</p>

<p>“No, sir. Some said the lady heard of the talk
and thought she had gone far enough; others, that
Mr. Berlyn got wise to it; and others again, that
they got tired of each other. I don’t know.
Whatever happened, it was all quite amicable, for I’ve
seen them together different times since.”</p>

<p>“And was that the only time there was talk?”</p>

<p>“After that there was talk about her and Colonel
Domlio. But you know, Mr. French, in a place
this size they’re hard up for something to talk about.
I don’t believe there was anything in either story.”</p>

<p>“Tell me what was said anyway.”</p>

<p>“Well, that she used to go out to see him in the
afternoons. The colonel was believed to be very
fond of her, but she was only supposed to be
amusing herself with him.”</p>

<p>“You say this took place recently?”</p>

<p>“That was the rumour.”</p>

<p>French shrugged.</p>

<p>“Safety in numbers, Sergeant. I agree it doesn’t
sound hopeful. Did Mr. Berlyn seem upset about
it?”</p>

<p>“Not that I ever heard of.”</p>

<p>“No good for us, Sergeant. Now about these
others. Mr. Pyke was not married, was he?”</p>

<p>No, Mr. Pyke was not married, nor were Mr.
Cowls nor Mr. Samuel nor Mr. Leacock, other
young men about the works with whom Mrs.
Berlyn had seemed on good terms. Mr. Pyke had been
with the firm for several years and was said to be
highly thought of. He was pleasant-mannered and
jolly and a general favourite. He lodged in the
town; in fact, his rooms were nearly opposite the
hotel.</p>

<p>“Is Mrs. Berlyn still here?”</p>

<p>“She left three or four days ago. There was an
auction and she waited till it was over. I heard
she had gone to London.”</p>

<p>“Will she be well off?”</p>

<p>“I believe so. They say Mr. Berlyn left her
everything.”</p>

<p>“You spoke of Mr. Pyke’s cousin. Who is he?”</p>

<p>“A Mr. Jefferson Pyke, a farmer in the Argentine.
Rather like the late Mr. Pyke, that’s Mr.
Stanley, in appearance, but a bit taller and broader.
He was on a visit to England and was down here
twice. First he came and stayed with Mr. Stanley
for three or four days about a couple of months
before the tragedy; that was when Mrs. Berlyn took
them both out motoring. I wasn’t speaking to him
then, but I saw him with Mr. and Mrs. Berlyn and
Mr. Stanley in the car. Then the morning after the
tragedy Mrs. Berlyn gave me his London address
and told me to wire for him. I did so and he came
down that evening. He stayed for three or four
days in Torquay and came over to make enquiries
and to look after Mr. Stanley’s affairs. A very
nice gentleman I found him, and a good business
man, too.”</p>

<p>French noted the London address and then asked
what servants the Berlyns had.</p>

<p>“They had three—two house servants and the
gardener.”</p>

<p>“Any of them available?”</p>

<p>“One of the girls, Lizzie Johnston, lives not far
away. The others were strangers.”</p>

<p>French continued his inquisitions in his slow,
painstaking way, making notes about everyone
connected with the Berlyns and Pyke. But he learned
nothing that confirmed his suspicions or suggested a
line of research. It was true that in Mrs. Berlyn
he had glimpsed a possible source of trouble between
her husband and Pyke. All the essentials of a
triangle drama were there—except the drama itself.
Mrs. Berlyn might easily have hated her husband
and loved one of these other men, but, unfortunately
for theorising detectives, if not for moralists, there
was no evidence that she had done so. However, it
was a suggestive idea and one which could not be
lost sight of.</p>

<p>As these thoughts passed through French’s mind
a further consideration struck him, a consideration
which he saw might not only prove a fifth test of
the case he was trying to make, but which, if so,
would undoubtedly be the most conclusive of them
all. He turned once more to Daw.</p>

<p>“There’s a point which is worrying me rather,
Sergeant,” he declared. “Suppose one of these two
men murdered the other on that night. Now why
would the murderer go to the trouble of getting the
body into the works and sending it off in the crate?
Could he not simply have thrown it into one of these
mires?”</p>

<p>Daw nodded.</p>

<p>“I thought of that when you suggested your idea,
but I don’t believe there’s anything in it. It
wouldn’t be so easy as it sounds. In fact, I couldn’t
see any way it could be done.”</p>

<p>“I’m glad to hear you say so, Sergeant. Explain,
please.”</p>

<p>“Well, if you go into one of those places and
begin to sink you throw yourself on your back. As
long as your weight is on the small area of your
feet you go down, but if you increase your area by
lying on your back you reduce the weight per unit
of area and you float—because it really is a kind of
floating. You follow me, sir?”</p>

<p>“Quite. Go ahead.”</p>

<p>“Now if you walk to a soft place carrying a body
you have doubled the weight on your feet. You
will go down quickly. But the body won’t go down.
A man who tried to get rid of his victim that way
would fail, and lose his own life into the bargain.”</p>

<p>“That sounds conclusive. But I didn’t know you
could save yourself by throwing yourself down. If
that is so wouldn’t Berlyn and Pyke have escaped
that way? Why did you then accept the idea that
they had been lost?”</p>

<p>“There were two reasons. First there was
nothing to make me doubt it, such as knowing about the
crate, and secondly, though the accident was not
exactly likely, it was possible. This is the way I
figured it out. Suppose one of these mists had come
on. They do come on unexpectedly. One of the
men gets into a soft place. Mists are confusing,
and in trying to get out, he mistakes his position and
flounders in further. That’s all perfectly possible.
Then he calls to the other one, and in going to the
first one’s help the other gets in also—both too far
to get out again.”</p>

<p>“But you said it was a clear night?”</p>

<p>“So it was when I got there. But three or four
hours earlier it might have been thick.”</p>

<p>“Now, Sergeant, there’s another thing. Could
the murderer not have used some sort of apparatus,
a ladder or plank to lay on the soft ground, over
which he could have carried the body and escaped
himself? Same as you do on ice.”</p>

<p>“I thought of that too, but I don’t believe it
would be possible. A ladder wouldn’t do at all.
With its sharp edges it would go down under the
weight. And I don’t think a man could handle a
big enough plank. It would have to be pretty wide
to support the weight of two men and it would have
to be long to get beyond the edge of the mire. You
see, Mr. French, it’s only well out into the big mires
that a flat body will sink. Near the edges it would
have to be kept upright with the weight on the
feet. That couldn’t be done off the end of a
plank which would itself be sinking; in fact, I don’t
think it could be done at all.”</p>

<p>French nodded. This was certainly very
satisfactory.</p>

<p>“Besides, sir,” Daw went on, “think of a plank
laid as you’ve suggested and with the end of it
partly sunk. It’ll not be easy to pull out,
particularly when the ground you’re pulling from is not
very firm. You won’t do it without leaving pretty
deep footmarks, and the plank will leave a sort of
trough where it was slid out. If that had been done
that night the marks would have been there next
morning, and if they had been there I should have
seen them. No, sir, I think you may give up that
idea. You couldn’t get rid of a body by hiding it
in a mire.”</p>

<p>“I’m uncommonly glad to hear you say so,”
French repeated. “If the thing had been possible
it would have knocked my case into a cocked hat.
Well, Sergeant, I’ve bothered you enough for one
morning. I’ll go along and have a word with Mrs.
Berlyn’s maid.”</p>

<p>Lizzie Johnston lived with her mother in a little
cottage on the hill behind the railway station. She
proved to be a dark, good-looking girl of about five
and twenty, and when French talked with her he
soon discovered she was observant and intelligent
also.</p>

<p>She had lived, she said, with Mrs. Berlyn for
about two years, and French, in his skilful, pleasant
way drew her out on the subject of the household.
It consisted of the two Berlyns, herself, and cook,
unless Peter Swann, the gardener, might be included.</p>

<p>Mr. Berlyn she had not greatly liked. He was
quiet in the house, but was rather exacting. He was
not socially inclined and preferred an evening’s
reading over the fire to any dinner party or dance.
He had been civil enough to her, though she had
really come very little in contact with him.</p>

<p>About Mrs. Berlyn the girl was not enthusiastic,
either, though she said nothing directly against her.
Mrs. Berlyn, it appeared, was also hard to please,
and no matter what was done for her, she always
wanted something more. She was never content to
be alone and was continually running over to
Torquay to amusements. After their marriage Mr.
Berlyn had gone with her, but he had gradually
given up doing so and had allowed her to find some
other escort. This she had had no difficulty in
doing, and Mr. Pyke, Mr. Cowls and others were
constantly in attendance.</p>

<p>No, the girl did not think there had been
anything between Mrs. Berlyn and any of these men,
though for a time Mr. Pyke’s attentions had been
rather pronounced. But some four months before
the tragedy they appeared to have had a disagreement,
for his visits had suddenly fallen off. But it
could not have been very serious, for he still had
occasionally come to dinner and to play bridge. She
remembered one time in particular when Mr. Pyke
had brought a relative; she heard it was a cousin.
There were just the four, the two Pykes and the two
Berlyns, and they all seemed very friendly. But
there was a coolness all the same, and since it had
developed, Colonel Domlio had to some extent
taken Mr. Pyke’s place.</p>

<p>About the Berlyns’ history she could not tell
much. Mr. Berlyn had lived in the town for
several years before his marriage. He seemed to have
plenty of money. He had bought the house on the
Buckland road just before the wedding and had had
it done up from top to bottom. It was not a large
house, but beautifully fitted up. At the same time
he had bought the car. Peter Swann, the gardener,
washed the car, but he did not drive it. Both Mr.
and Mrs. Berlyn were expert drivers and good
mechanics. Mrs. Berlyn also used her push bicycle a
good deal.</p>

<p>French then came to the evening of the tragedy.
On that evening dinner had been early to allow Mr.
Berlyn to get away in the car at seven o’clock. It
had been her, Lizzie Johnston’s, evening out, but
Mrs. Berlyn had told her she would have to take the
next evening instead, as some friends were coming
in and she would be wanted to bring up supper.
About eight o’clock Mr. Fogden, Mr. Cowls, a Dr.
and Mrs. Lancaster, and three or four other people
had arrived. She had brought them up coffee and
sandwiches about half past ten. They had left
about eleven. She had got to bed almost at once,
and a few minutes later she had heard Mrs. Berlyn
go up to her room.</p>

<p>The next thing she remembered was being
wakened in the middle of the night by Mrs. Berlyn.
The lady was partly dressed and seemed agitated.
“Lizzie,” she had said, “it’s nearly three o’clock and
there’s no sign of Mr. Berlyn. I’m frightened. I’ve
just been out to the garage to see if the car has come
back, but it’s not there. What do you think can be
wrong?”</p>

<p>They hurriedly discussed the matter. Mr.
Berlyn was the last man to alter his plans, and both
were afraid of an accident on that dangerous
Tavistock road.</p>

<p>In the end they decided that Mrs. Berlyn should
knock up Sergeant Daw, who lived near. This she
did, while Lizzie dressed. Presently Mrs. Berlyn
came back to say that the sergeant was going out to
investigate. They had some tea and lay down
without taking off their clothes. In the early morning
a policeman brought the news of the tragedy.</p>

<p>Mrs. Berlyn was terribly upset. But she grew
calmer in time, and the arrangements for the
auction and for her removal to London taking her out
of herself, in a week she was almost normal.</p>

<p>She had been very nice to Lizzie at the last,
giving her an excellent testimonial and an extra
month’s wages.</p>

<p>French thanked the girl for her information and
rose as if to take his leave.</p>

<p>“I suppose Mrs. Berlyn was something of a
needlewoman?” he said, carelessly. “Some one told me
she made her own dresses.”</p>

<p>Lizzie laughed contemptuously.</p>

<p>“Made her dresses, did she?” she repeated. “I
don’t think. She didn’t hardly know how to wear a
thimble, she didn’t. She wouldn’t have sat down to
a job of sewing, not for no person on earth she
wouldn’t.”</p>

<p>“Then who did the household mending?”</p>

<p>“Yours truly. Anything that was done I had to
do.”</p>

<p>“But not the clothes, surely? Who darned Mr.
Berlyn’s socks, for instance?”</p>

<p>“Yours truly. I tell you Mrs. Berlyn wouldn’t
have touched a sock or a bit of wool not to save her
life.”</p>

<p>This was a piece of unexpected luck. French
turned away.</p>

<p>“You are a good girl,” he declared. “Would
half a sovereign be of any use to you?”</p>

<p>Miss Johnston left him in no doubt on the point.</p>

<p>“Very well,” he went on. “You come down to
the hotel after dinner to-night and ask for me. I
want you to mend some clothes and socks for me.
Or rather,” he paused, “I have to come up in this
direction after lunch to-day in any case, and I’ll
bring them.”</p>

<p>No object in advertising the lines on which he
was working, he thought. The less that was known
of his researches, the more hope there was of their
proving fruitful.</p>

<p>A couple of hours later he returned with a small
suitcase.</p>

<p>“Here are the clothes,” he said. “I wish you’d
see what they want, so that I’ll know when I’m
likely to get them.”</p>

<p>He laid four pairs of socks on the table—three
brown pairs of his own and the grey pair found in
the crate. The girl looked them over one by one.
French watched her in silence. He was anxious,
if possible, to give her no lead.</p>

<p>“There isn’t much wrong with these,” she said,
presently. “They don’t want no darning.”</p>

<p>“Oh, but they have been badly mended. You
see these grey ones have been done with a
different-coloured wool. I thought perhaps you could put
that right.”</p>

<p>Miss Johnston laughed scornfully.</p>

<p>“You’re mighty particular, mister, if that
darning ain’t good enough for you. I’d just like to know
what’s wrong with it.”</p>

<p>“You think it’s all right?” French returned. “If
so, I’m satisfied. But what about these
underclothes?”</p>

<p>The girl examined the clothes. They were almost
new and neatly folded, just as they had come back
from the laundry, so that her contemptuous reply
was not inexcusable. At all events, it was evident
that no suspicion that they were other than her
visitor’s had crossed her mind.</p>

<p>French, with his half formed theory of Berlyn’s
guilt, would have been surprised if she had answered
otherwise. The test, however, had been necessary,
and he felt he had not lost time. Mollifying her
with a tip, he returned to the hotel.</p>



<h2>Chapter Nine: A Step Forward</h2>

<p>French believed that he had obtained all the
available information about the Berlyns from his
interview with the sergeant and Lizzie Johnston.
Pyke was the next name on his list and he now
crossed East Street to the house in which the
travelling representative had lodged. The door was
opened by a bright-eyed, bustling little woman at
sight of whom French’s emotional apparatus
registered satisfaction. He knew the type. The woman
was a talker.</p>

<p>But when for the best part of an hour he had
listened to her, satisfaction was no longer the word
with which to express his state of mind. He had no
difficulty in getting her to talk. His trouble was to
direct the flood of her conversation along the
channel in which he wished it to flow.</p>

<p>He began by explaining that he was staying at
the hotel, but that as he liked the district and might
want to remain for some time, he was looking about
for rooms. He had heard she had some to let.
Was this so, and if it was, could he see them?</p>

<p>It was so and he could see them. She had had
a lodger, a very nice gentleman and a very good
payer, but she had lost him recently. Mr. ——? She
had heard his name: was it not Mr. French? Mr.
French must have heard about his dreadful death?
His name was Mr. Pyke. Had Mr. French not
heard?</p>

<p>Mr. French had heard something about it. It
seemed a very sad affair.</p>

<p>It was a very sad affair. Mr. Pyke had gone out
that evening as well as Mr. French or herself, and
he had never come back, had never been seen again.
Terrible, wasn’t it? And a terrible shock to her.
Indeed, she didn’t feel the same even yet. She
didn’t believe she ever would. Between that and
the loss of the letting. . . .</p>

<p>What had he said before he started? Why, he
hadn’t said anything! At least he had said he
wouldn’t be home until about midnight, and for her
not to forget to leave the hall door on the latch and
to put some supper on the table in his room. And
she had done. She had left everything right for
him, and then she had gone to bed. And she had
slept. She was a good sleeper, except that one time
after she had had scarlet fever, when the doctor
said . . .</p>

<p>Yes, the rooms were ready at any time. She
believed in keeping her house clean and tidy at all
times, so that everything was always ready when it
was wanted. She had once been in service with
Mrs. Lloyd-Hurley in Chagford and she had learnt
that lesson there. Mrs. Lloyd-Hurley was very
particular. She . . .</p>

<p>Mr. Pyke’s things? Oh yes, they were gone. She
thought that would be understood when she said
the rooms were ready. She . . .</p>

<p>It was his cousin. His cousin had come down
from London and taken everything there was. That
was Mr. Jefferson Pyke. Her Mr. Pyke was Mr.
Stanley. Mr. Jefferson was the only remaining
relative, at least so she understood. He packed up
everything and took it away. Except a few things
that he said he didn’t want. These she had kept.
Not that she wanted them, but if they were going
begging, as Mr. French might say, why, then. . . .</p>

<p>No, she had only seen Mr. Jefferson once before.
He lived in the Argentine, or was it Australia? She
wasn’t rightly sure—she had no memory for places—but
he lived away in some strange foreign
country, anyhow. He happened to be over on a visit and
was going back again shortly. Her brother James
lived in Australia and she had asked Mr.
Jefferson . . .</p>

<p>So French sat and listened while the unending
stream poured about his devoted head. At times
by summoning up all his resolution he interposed a
remark which diverted the current in a new
direction. But his perseverance was rewarded as from
nearly all of these mutations he learned at least one
fact. When at last, exhausted but triumphant, he
rose to take his leave, he had gained the following
information:</p>

<p>Mr. Stanley Pyke was a jolly, pleasant-mannered
man of about five-and-thirty, who had lodged with
the talkative landlady for the past four years. He
had been connected with the works for much longer
than that, but at first had had other rooms farther
down the street. Hers, the landlady modestly
explained, were the best in the town, and Mr. Pyke’s
removal was an outward and visible sign of his
prosperity. For the rest, he was satisfactory as
lodgers go, easy to please, not stingy about money,
and always with a pleasant word for her when they
met.</p>

<p>On the evening of the tragedy he had dined at
six-fifteen instead of seven, his usual hour. He had
gone out immediately after, giving the instruction
about the door and his supper. The landlady had
gone to bed as usual, and the first intimation she
had had that anything was wrong was the visit of
the police on the following morning.</p>

<p>Some one, she did not know who, must have
informed the cousin, Mr. Jefferson Pyke, for that
evening he turned up. He had stayed at Torquay
for three or four days, coming over to Ashburton
to see the police and make enquiries. On one of
these visits he had called on her and stated that,
as he was the only surviving relative of his cousin,
he would take charge of his personal effects. He
had packed up and removed a good many of the
dead man’s things, saying he did not want the
remainder and asking her to dispose of them.</p>

<p>It had not occurred to her to question Mr.
Jefferson Pyke’s right to take her lodger’s property.
She had seen him once before, in Mr. Stanley’s
lifetime. Some two months before the tragedy Mr.
Stanley had told her that his cousin was home on a
visit from the Argentine—she believed it was the
Argentine and not Australia—and that he was
coming down to see him. He asked her could she put
him up. Mr. Jefferson had arrived a day or two
later and she had given him her spare bedroom. He
stayed for four days and the cousins had explored
the moor together. Mrs. Berlyn, she had heard,
had driven them about in her car. The landlady had
found Mr. Jefferson very pleasant; indeed, when the
two men were together they had nearly made her
die laughing with their jokes and nonsense. Mr.
Jefferson had told her that he owned a ranch in the
Argentine and that he was thinking of starting
flower gardens from which to supply the cities. He
was then on his way back from the Scillys, where
he had gone to investigate the industry. A week
after Mr. Jefferson left, Mr. Stanley took his
holidays, and he had told her he was going with his
cousin to the south of France to a place called
Grasse, where there were more gardens. He was
only back some three weeks when he met his death.</p>

<p>All this was given to French with a wealth of
detail which, had it been material to his investigation,
he would have welcomed, but by which, as it was,
he was frankly bored. However, he could do
nothing to stop the stream and he simulated interest as
best he could.</p>

<p>“By the way, Mrs. Billing,” he said, pausing on
his way out, “if I take these rooms could you look
after the mending of my clothes? Who did it for
Mr. Pyke?”</p>

<p>Mrs. Billing had, and she would be delighted to
do the same for Mr. French.</p>

<p>“Well, I have some that want it at the present
time. Suppose I bring them over now. Could you
look at them?” Five minutes later he returned
with his suitcase and spread out the clothes as he
had done for Lizzie Johnston an hour or two
before. Like the maid, Mrs. Billing glanced over
them and remarked that there didn’t seem to be
much wrong.</p>

<p>French picked up the grey sock.</p>

<p>“But you see they have not been very neatly
darned. This grey one has been done with a
different coloured wool. I thought perhaps you could
put that right.”</p>

<p>Mrs. Billing took the grey sock and stared at it
for some time, while a puzzled expression grew on
her face. French, suddenly keenly excited, watched
her almost breathlessly. But after turning it over
she put it down, though the slightly mystified look
remained.</p>

<p>“Here are some underclothes,” French went on.
“Do these want any mending?”</p>

<p>Slowly the landlady turned over the bundle. As
she did so incredulity and amazement showed on
her bird-like features. Then swiftly she turned to
the neck of the vest and the shirt cuffs and
scrutinised the buttons and links.</p>

<p>“My Gawd!” she whispered, hoarsely, and
French saw that her face had paled and her hands
were trembling.</p>

<p>“You recognise them?”</p>

<p>She nodded, her flood of speech for once
paralysed.</p>

<p>“Where did you get them?” she asked, still in a
whisper.</p>

<p>French was quite as excited as she, but he
controlled himself and spoke easily.</p>

<p>“Tell me first whose they are and how you are
so sure of them.”</p>

<p>“They’re Mr. Pyke’s, what he was wearing the
night he was lost. I couldn’t but be sure of them.
See here. There’s the wool first. I darned that and
I remember I hadn’t the right colour. Then these
buttons.” She picked up the vest. “I put that one
on. See, it’s not the same as the rest; it was the
only one I could get. And then if that wasn’t
enough, these are the cuff-links. I’ve seen them
hundreds of times and I’d know them anywhere.
Where did you get them?”</p>

<p>French dropped his suave, kindly manner and
suddenly became official and, for him, unusually harsh.</p>

<p>“Now, Mrs. Billing,” he said, sharply, “I’d
better tell you exactly who I am and warn you that
you’ve got to keep it to yourself. I am Inspector
French of New Scotland Yard; you understand, a
police officer. I have discovered that Mr. Pyke
was murdered and I am on the track of the
murderer.”</p>

<p>The landlady gave a little scream. She was
evidently profoundly moved, not only by surprise and
excitement, but by horror at her late lodger’s fate.
She began to speak, but French cut her short.</p>

<p>“I want you to understand,” he said, threateningly,
“that you must keep silence on this matter.
If any hint of it gets about, it will be a very serious
thing for you. I take it you don’t want to be mixed
up in a murder trial. Very well, then; keep your
mouth shut.”</p>

<p>Mrs. Billing was terrified and eagerly promised
discretion. French questioned her further, but
without result. She did not believe her late lodger
was on bad terms with anyone, nor did she know if
he had a birthmark on his upper arm.</p>

<p>French’s delight at his discovery was unbounded.
The identification of the dead man represented the
greatest step towards the completion of his case
that he had yet made. He chuckled to himself in
pure joy.</p>

<p>But his brain reeled when he thought of his four
test points. If this news were true, he had made
some pretty bad mistakes! Each one of his four
conclusions must be false. As he remembered the
facts on which they were based, he had to admit
himself completely baffled.</p>

<p>Presently his mood changed and a wave of
pessimism swept over him. The identification of the
underclothes was not, after all, the identification
of the body. Such an astute criminal as he was
dealing with might have changed the dead man’s
clothes. But when he reminded himself that the
man who called for the crate resembled Berlyn, the
thing became more convincing. However, it had
not been proved, and he wanted certainty.</p>

<p>Fortunately there was the birthmark. French
had examined it carefully and was satisfied that it
was genuine. Who, he wondered, could identify it?</p>

<p>The most likely person, he thought, was Jefferson
Pyke. It would be worth a journey to London
to have the point settled. That night, therefore, he
took the sleeping-car express to Paddington.</p>

<p>Daw had given him the address—17b, Kepple
Street, off Russell Square, and before ten next
morning he was there.</p>

<p>Jefferson Pyke was a clean-shaven man of about
forty, of rather more than medium height and
stoutly built. He was a study in browns: brown
eyes, a dusky complexion, hair nearly black, brown
clothes and shoes, and a dark-brown tie. He looked
keenly at his visitor, then pointed to a chair.</p>

<p>“Mr. French?” he said, speaking deliberately.
“What can I do for you, sir?”</p>

<p>“I’ll tell you, Mr. Pyke,” French answered.
“First of all, here is my professional card. I want
some help from you in an investigation I am
making.”</p>

<p>Pyke glanced at the card and nodded.</p>

<p>“A case on which I was engaged took me
recently to Ashburton, and while there I heard of the
tragic death of Mr. Pyke and Mr. Berlyn of the
Veda Works staff. I understand that Mr. Pyke
was a relative of yours?”</p>

<p>“That is so. My first cousin.”</p>

<p>“Well, Mr. Pyke,” French said, gravely, “I have
to inform you that a discovery had been made which
may or may not have a bearing on your cousin’s
fate. A body has been found—the body of a
murdered man. That body has not been identified, but
there is a suggestion that it may be your cousin’s.
I want to know if you can identify it?”</p>

<p>Mr. Pyke stared incredulously.</p>

<p>“Good Heavens, Inspector! That’s an astonishing
suggestion. You must surely be mistaken. I
went down to Ashburton directly I heard of the
accident, and there seemed no doubt then about
what had happened. Tell me the particulars.”</p>

<p>“About a fortnight ago, as you may have noticed
in the papers, a crate was picked up in the sea off
Burry Port in South Wales, which was found to
contain the body of a murdered man. The face had
been disfigured and there was no means of
identification. However, I traced the crate and I learned
that it was sent out from the Veda Works on the
morning after your cousin and Mr. Berlyn
disappeared.”</p>

<p>“Good Heavens!” Mr. Pyke exclaimed again.
“Go on.”</p>

<p>“I made enquiries and the only persons known
to have disappeared were those two men. You see
the suggestion? I am sorry to have to ask you,
but can you help me to identify the remains?”</p>

<p>Mr. Pyke’s face showed both amazement and
horror.</p>

<p>“This is terrible news, Inspector. I need hardly
say I hope you are mistaken. Of course you may
count on me to do all I can.”</p>

<p>“You think you can identify the body, then?”</p>

<p>“Surely I ought to recognise my own cousin?”</p>

<p>“Otherwise than by the face? Remember the
face has been disfigured. I might say, indeed, it is
nonexistent, it has been so savagely battered.”</p>

<p>“By Heaven! I hope you will get the man who
did it!” Pyke said, hotly. “But that does not
answer your question.” He hesitated. “If it is not
possible to recognise the features, I’m not so sure.
How do you suggest it might be done?”</p>

<p>French shrugged.</p>

<p>“Identification otherwise than by the features is
usually possible. It is a matter of observation.
Some small physical defect, a crooked finger, the
scar of an old cut, or mole on the neck—there are
scores of indications to the observant man.”</p>

<p>Mr. Pyke sat in silence for a few minutes.</p>

<p>“Then I’m afraid I’m not very observant,” he
said at last. “I can’t remember any such peculiarity
in poor Stanley’s case.”</p>

<p>“Nothing in the shape of the finger nails,”
French prompted. “No birthmark, no local
roughness or discoloration of the skin?”</p>

<p>“By Jove!” Mr. Pyke exclaimed with a sudden
gesture. “There is something. My cousin had a
birthmark, a small red mark on his left arm, here.
I remembered it directly you mentioned the word.”</p>

<p>“Then you have been fairly intimate with your
cousin? Have you often seen this mark?”</p>

<p>“Seen it? Scores of times. We were boys
together and I have noticed it again and again. Why,
now I come to think of it, I saw it on these last
holidays I spent with Stanley. We went to the
south of France and shared a cabin in the steamer
to Marseilles.”</p>

<p>“Could you describe it?”</p>

<p>“No, but I could sketch it.” He seized a piece
of paper and drew a rough triangle.</p>

<p>French laid his photograph beside the sketch.
There could be no doubt that they represented the
same object. Pyke seized the photograph.</p>

<p>“That’s it. I could swear to it anywhere. You’ve
found Stanley’s body right enough. Good Heavens!
Inspector, it’s incredible! I could have sworn he
hadn’t an enemy in the world. Have you any clue
to the murderer?”</p>

<p>Natural caution and official training made French
hedge.</p>

<p>“Not as yet,” he answered, assuring himself that
his ideas about Berlyn were hypothetical. “I was
hoping that you could give me a lead.”</p>

<p>“I?” Jefferson Pyke shook his head. “Far from
it. Even now I can scarcely credit the affair.”</p>

<p>“Well, I should like you to run over his
associates and see if you can’t think of any who might
have hated him. Now to start with the senior
partner: What about Colonel Domlio?”</p>

<p>Mr. Pyke had never met him and knew nothing
about him, though he had heard his cousin
mention his name. French went on through the list he
had made at Ashburton till in the natural sequence
he came to Berlyn.</p>

<p>“Now Mr. Berlyn. Could he have had a down
on your cousin?”</p>

<p>“But he was lost, too,” Pyke rejoined, then
stopped and looked keenly at French. “By Jove!
Inspector, I get your idea! You think Berlyn may
have murdered him and cleared out?” He shook
his head. “No, no. You are wrong. It is
impossible. Berlyn wasn’t that sort. I knew him slightly
and I confess I didn’t care for him, but he was not
a murderer.”</p>

<p>“Why did you not like him, Mr. Pyke?”</p>

<p>Pyke shrugged.</p>

<p>“Hard to say. Not my style, perhaps. A good
man, you know, and efficient and all that, but—too
efficient, shall I say? He expected too much from
others; didn’t make allowances for human errors
and frailties. Poor Mrs. Berlyn had rather a time
with him.”</p>

<p>“How so?”</p>

<p>“Well, an example will explain what I mean. On
this last holiday after Stanley and I got back to
London we met Berlyn and his wife, who were in
town. The four of us dined together and went to
a theatre. We were to meet at the restaurant at
seven. Well, Mrs. Berlyn had been off somewhere
on her own and she was five minutes late. What
was that for a woman? But Berlyn was so ratty
about it that I felt quite embarrassed. You see, he
wouldn’t have been late himself. If he had said
seven, he would have been there—on the tick. He
couldn’t see that other people were not made the
same way.”</p>

<p>“I follow you. You say that Mrs. Berlyn had
rather a time with him. Did they not get on?”</p>

<p>“Oh, they got on—as well as fifty per cent of the
married people get on. Berlyn did his duty to her
strictly, even lavishly, but he expected the same in
return. I don’t know that you could blame him.
Strictly speaking, of course he was right. It was
his instinct for scrupulously fair play.”</p>

<p>“Your late cousin and Mrs. Berlyn were very
good friends, were they not?”</p>

<p>“We were both good friends with Mrs. Berlyn.
Stanley and I knew her as children. In fact, it was
through Stanley that Berlyn met her. I was in the
Argentine at the time, but he told me about it.
Berlyn was going for a holiday—one of those
cruises round the western Mediterranean. Stanley
happened to have met Phyllis Considine, as she was
then, in London, and she had mentioned she was
going on the same trip. So he gave Berlyn an
introduction. Berlyn, it appears, fell in love with her
and was accepted before the cruise was over.”</p>

<p>“Do you think Berlyn could have been jealous of
your cousin?”</p>

<p>“I’m sure he could not, Inspector. Don’t get
that bee into your bonnet. Stanley certainly went
often to the house, but Berlyn was always friendly
to him. I don’t for a moment believe there was
anything to be jealous about.”</p>

<p>“There was enough intimacy for them to be
talked about.”</p>

<p>“In Ashburton!” Pyke retorted, scornfully. “In
a little one-horse place like that they’d talk no
matter what you did.”</p>

<p>“It was believed that there was something
between them until about four months before the
tragedy, then for some unknown reason the affair
stopped.”</p>

<p>“That so?” Pyke retorted. “Well, if it stopped
four months before the tragedy it couldn’t have
caused it.”</p>

<p>“Do you know where Mrs. Berlyn is now?”</p>

<p>“Yes, in London; at 70b Park Walk, Chelsea,
to be exact.”</p>

<p>French continued his questions, but without learning
anything further of interest, and after cautioning
Pyke to keep his own counsel, he took his leave.</p>

<p>So he had reached certainty at last! The body
was Stanley Pyke’s. He had admittedly made four
ghastly blunders in his test points and these he must
now try to retrieve. There was also a reasonable
suspicion that Charles Berlyn was the murderer.
Splendid! He was getting on. As he went down
to the Yard he felt he had some good work
behind him to report.</p>



<h2>Chapter Ten: London’s Further Contribution</h2>

<p>Now that he was in London, French decided that
he should complete certain enquiries.</p>

<p>First he should satisfy himself that everything
possible had been done to trace the letter-writers
of the Euston and St. Pancras hotels and the
purchaser of the money order for £62.10.0. Next he
must visit the manufacturers of the Ardlo magneto
and get their views on short-circuited windings.
Lastly he must have an interview with Mrs. Berlyn.</p>

<p>As it happened, he took the last of these items
first, and three o’clock that afternoon found him
ascending the stairs of No. 70b Park Walk,
Chelsea. The house was divided into a number of what
seemed small but comfortable flats. Pretty
expensive, French thought, as he rang.</p>

<p>A neatly dressed maid opened the door and, after
taking in his card, announced that Mrs. Berlyn
would see him. He followed her to a tiny, but
pleasantly furnished drawing room, and there in a
few minutes he was joined by the lady of the house.</p>

<p>French looked at her with some curiosity. Of
medium height and with a slight, graceful figure, she
still gave an impression of energy and competent
efficiency. She was not beautiful, but her appearance
was arresting and French felt instinctively that
she was a woman to be reckoned with. Her
manner was vivacious and French could imagine her
dancing all night and turning up next morning to
breakfast as cool and fresh and ready for anything
as if she had had her accustomed eight hours’ sleep.</p>

<p>“Inspector French, Scotland Yard,” she said,
briskly, glancing at the card in her hand. “Won’t
you sit down, Mr. French, and tell me what I can
do for you?”</p>

<p>“Thank you, Mrs. Berlyn. I am sorry to say I
have called on distressing business. It may or may
not concern your late husband. I am hoping for
information from you which may decide the point.”</p>

<p>The lady’s expression became grave.</p>

<p>“Suppose you give me the details,” she suggested.</p>

<p>“I am about to do so, but I warn you that you
must prepare yourself for a shock. It is in
connection with the tragedy by which Mr. Berlyn and
Mr. Pyke were believed to have lost their lives.”</p>

<p>Mrs. Berlyn started and her gaze became fixed
intently on French.</p>

<p>“It has been discovered that Mr. Pyke was not
lost on the moor as was supposed. Of Mr. Berlyn’s
fate nothing new has been learnt. But I deeply
regret to inform you that Mr. Pyke was murdered.”</p>

<p>“Stanley Pyke murdered! Oh, impossible!”
Horror showed on the lady’s face and her lips trembled.
For a moment it looked as if she would give way to
her emotion, but she controlled herself and asked
for details.</p>

<p>French told her exactly what had occurred, from
the discovery of the crate to Jefferson Pyke’s
identification of the birthmark.</p>

<p>“I’m afraid it must be true,” she said, sadly, when
he had finished. “I remember that birthmark, too.
We were children together, the Pykes and I, and I
have often seen it. Oh, I can’t say how sorry I am!
Who <em>could</em> have done such a terrible thing?
Stanley was so jolly and pleasant and kind. He was
good to everyone and everyone liked him. Oh, it is
too awful for words!”</p>

<p>French made a noncommittal reply.</p>

<p>“But what about my late husband?” Mrs. Berlyn
went on. “You said nothing had been learnt about
him. But—if they were together——?”</p>

<p>She paused suddenly, as if seeing that a meaning
which she had not intended might be read into her
words. But French replied, soothingly:</p>

<p>“That’s one of the things I wanted to talk to you
about, Mrs. Berlyn. Did you know if either he or
Mr. Pyke had any enemies? You need not fear
to tell me the merest suspicions. I will act only on
knowledge that I obtain, but your suspicion might
suggest where to look for that knowledge.”</p>

<p>“Are you suggesting that my husband might have
been murdered also?” she said in a low voice.</p>

<p>“Not necessarily. I am asking if you can think
of anything which could sustain that view?”</p>

<p>Mrs. Berlyn could not think of anything. She
did not know of anyone who had a grudge against
either of the men. Indeed, only for the inspector’s
assurance she could not have brought herself to
believe that Mr. Pyke had met so dreadful an end.</p>

<p>French then began pumping her in his quiet,
skilful way. But though she answered all his questions
with the utmost readiness, he did not learn much
that he had not already known.</p>

<p>Her father, she told him, was a doctor in Lincoln
and there she had known the Pykes. Stanley’s
mother—his father was dead—lived about a mile
from the town, and he and his cousin Jefferson, who
boarded with them, used to walk in daily to school.
The three had met at parties and children’s dances
and had once spent a holiday together at the seaside.
The Pykes had left the town when the boys had
finished their schooling and she had lost sight of them.
Then one day she had met Stanley in London and
he told her that he was at the Veda Works. She
had mentioned that she was going on a cruise to the
Mediterranean and he had said that his employer,
Mr. Berlyn, was going on the same trip and to be
sure to look out for him. That was the way she
had met Mr. Berlyn. He had proposed to her on
the trip and she had accepted him.</p>

<p>French then delicately broached the question of
her relations with Stanley Pyke. And here for the
first time he was not satisfied by her replies. That
there had been something more between them than
friendship he strongly suspected. Indeed, Mrs.
Berlyn practically admitted it. As a result of
French’s diplomatic probing it came out that Mr.
Berlyn had shown marked disapproval of their
intimacy and that about four months prior to the
tragedy they had decided that for the sake of peace
they should see less of each other. They had
carried out this resolve and Berlyn’s resentment had
apparently vanished.</p>

<p>French next turned to the subject of Colonel
Domlio, but here Mrs. Berlyn had as good as
laughed. It appeared that the man had tried to
flirt with her, but her opinion was evidently that
there was no fool like an old fool. French had no
doubt that any lovemaking that might have taken
place was not serious, on the lady’s side, at all
events.</p>

<p>Thinking that he had obtained all the information
that he was likely to get, French at last rose to go.
But Mrs. Berlyn signed to him to sit down again
and said, gravely:</p>

<p>“If that is all, Mr. French, I want to ask you a
question. I never think there is any use in pretending
about things, and from your questions I cannot
but guess what is in your mind. You think my late
husband may have murdered Mr. Pyke?”</p>

<p>“I take it from that, Mrs. Berlyn, that you want
a perfectly straight answer? Well, I shall give it
to you. The idea, of course, occurred to me, as it
would to anyone in my position. I am bound to
investigate it and I am going to do so. But I can say
without reservation that so far it remains an idea.”</p>

<p>Mrs. Berlyn bowed.</p>

<p>“Thank you for that. Of course I recognise that
you must investigate all possibilities, and I recognise,
too, that you will not give any weight to what I am
going to say. But I must tell you that if you suspect
Mr. Berlyn you are making a mistake. Though he
was not perfect, he was utterly incapable of a crime
like that—utterly. If you had ever met him you
would have known that. I wish I could say or do
something to convince you. Besides, if he were
alive, why did he disappear? If he were guilty,
would he not have come forward with a story that
Mr. Pyke had gone alone across the moor and been
lost in the mires?”</p>

<p>French had already noted the point as the chief
difficulty in his theory, and he admitted it fully. He
added that Mrs. Berlyn’s statement had made an
impression on him and that he would not fail to
bear it in mind. Then promising to let her know
the result of his enquiry, he took his leave.</p>

<p>He had not lied when he said her statement had
impressed him. That it represented her firm
conviction he had not the least doubt. And it
certainly was a point in Berlyn’s favour that such
testimony should be forthcoming from his wife, when it
was evident that their married life had been an
indifferent success. Of course it might be simply that
the woman did not wish to be involved in the misery
and disgrace which would come with proof of
Berlyn’s guilt. But French did not think it was this.
Her thought had seemed to be for her husband
rather than herself.</p>

<p>It was still fairly early in the afternoon and
French thought he would have time to make another
call. He therefore walked up the Fulham Road and
took an eastbound district train at South Kensington.
Half an hour later he was at the headquarters
of the Ardlo Magneto Company in Queen Elizabeth
Street.</p>

<p>When the managing director heard French’s
business he touched a bell.</p>

<p>“You had better see Mr. Illingworth, our chief
electrical engineer,” he said. “I am afraid I could
not help you in these technical matters.”</p>

<p>Mr. Illingworth was a pleasant young man with a
quiet, efficient manner. He took French to his
office, supplied him with cigarettes, and asked what
he could do for him.</p>

<p>French put his problem, recounting the enquiries
he had already made.</p>

<p>“Those people told you quite correctly,” was Mr.
Illingworth’s answer. “Your question is this:
Could a man drive a car up to a certain place and
then short circuit the magneto armature so that the
car couldn’t be started again? The answer is, Yes,
but not without leaving marks.”</p>

<p>“But that’s just my puzzle,” French returned.
“That’s exactly what seems to have been done.”</p>

<p>“Well,” Mr. Illingworth answered with a smile,
“you may take it from me that it wasn’t.”</p>

<p>“Then in the case that I have described, the
breakdown must have been a pure accident?”</p>

<p>“I should say, absolutely. Mind you, I don’t say
that a breakdown couldn’t be faked without leaving
traces. It could be. But not so as to stop the car
then and there. The concealed injury would take
time to develop.”</p>

<p>“That’s a bit cryptic, isn’t it? Can you make it
clearer to a lay intelligence?”</p>

<p>“Well, it is possible to damage the insulation by
jamming a needle into the armature winding
between the wire and the iron core, and if you’re
careful it’ll leave no mark. But it won’t disable the
magneto straight away. In fact, the car will run as
usual and it may be a considerable time before any
defect shows. But sparking takes place at the
injury, perhaps at first only when the engine is
working specially hard. This causes carbonisation of the
insulation, leading eventually to complete
breakdown. The car begins to misfire and it gradually
grows worse until it won’t run at all.”</p>

<p>“I follow you. I may take it, then, that it is
possible to cause a breakdown without leaving a
mark, but that this is a comparatively lengthy
process and cannot be done at a given time.”</p>

<p>“That’s right.”</p>

<p>“Suppose the winding was short-circuited as you
describe, could an electrician afterwards tell what
had been done?”</p>

<p>“No. It might have happened through some
carelessness in the original winding.”</p>

<p>“That seems pretty clear. Now, just one other
point, Mr. Illingworth. Those people, Makepeace,
in Ashburton, sent the actual magneto up here to
be overhauled. Can you trace it and let me know
just what was wrong?”</p>

<p>“Certainly. We have records of every machine
which passes through our hands.” He consulted an
index, finally withdrawing a card. “This is it. Sent
in from John Makepeace, Ashburton, on Monday,
twenty-second August. Would that date work in?”</p>

<p>“Yes, that’s all right.”</p>

<p>“We’ve not had another from Makepeace for
five years previously, so it must be,” Mr.
Illingworth went on, rapidly turning over the cards.
“Well, it’s just what we were speaking of. It
failed from a short-circuit in the armature winding
and it might have been caused purposely or it might
not. There was nothing to indicate.”</p>

<p>French rose.</p>

<p>“That’s good enough for me,” he declared.</p>

<p>He felt his brain reel as he considered the
contradictory nature of the evidence he was getting.
The breakdown of the car <em>had</em> happened, and at a
time and place which made it impossible to doubt
that it had been deliberately caused. To cause such
a breakdown was mechanically impossible. That
was the dilemma which confronted him. And the
further he probed this contradiction, the more
strongly he found its conflicting details confirmed.</p>

<p>In a dream he returned to the Yard, and there
with an effort switched his mind off the conundrum
and on to the features of his case which had been
dealt with from headquarters.</p>

<p>Inspector Tanner, it appeared, had handled these
matters, and by a lucky chance French found him
just about to leave for home.</p>

<p>“I’ll walk with you,” said French. “I don’t want
to delay you, and what’s more to the point, I want
to get home myself.”</p>

<p>Tanner was a man who liked a joke, or at least
what he considered a joke. He now chaffed French
on being unable to carry on his case by himself,
and they sparred amicably for some time before
coming to business. But Tanner was also exceedingly
able, and when he described what he had done
at the hotels and post office, French was satisfied
that no further information could be extracted from
these sources.</p>

<p>All the next day, which was Sunday, the problem
of the magneto remained subconsciously in French’s
mind, and when on Monday morning he took his
place in the 10.30 <small>A.M.</small> Limited to return to
Devonshire, he was still pondering it. In a dream he
watched the bustle of departure on the platform, the
arrival of more and ever more travellers, the
appropriation of seats, the disposal of luggage. (That
armature <em>had</em> been tampered with. It must have
been, because otherwise it would not have worked
in with a prearranged crime.) Lord! What a pile
of luggage for one woman to travel with!
American, he betted. (But, it could not have been done at
the time. In no way could it have been made to
fail just when it was wanted.) What price that for
a natty suit? Why, the man was a moving
chessboard! What was the connection between
chessboard suits and horses? (It must have been
tampered with; but it couldn’t have been. That was the
confounded problem.) There was the guard with
his green flag, looking critically up and down and
glancing first at his watch and then over his
shoulder at the platform clock. It was just twenty-nine
and a half minutes past. In another half
minute. . . .</p>

<p>Suddenly into French’s mind flashed an idea and
he sat for a moment motionless, as with a sort of
trembling eagerness he considered it. Why, his
problem was no problem at all! There was a
solution of the simplest and most obvious kind! How
had he been stupid enough not to have seen it?</p>

<p>As the guard waved his flag French sprang to
his feet, and, amid the execrations of the porters,
he hurled himself and his baggage from the moving
train. Then, smiling pleasantly at the exasperated
officials, he hurried from the station, jumped into
a taxi, and told the man to drive to the Ardlo
Magneto Works in Queen Elizabeth Street.</p>

<p>“Sorry to trouble you so soon again, Mr.
Illingworth,” he apologised on being shown in, “but I’ve
thought of a way in which that car could have been
disabled at the time and place required and I want
to know if it will hold water.”</p>

<p>“If your method covers all the factors in the
case as you have described it, I should like to hear
it, Mr. French.”</p>

<p>“Well, it’s simple enough, if it’s nothing else. I
take it that if the magneto of my car goes wrong
I can buy another?”</p>

<p>“Why of course! But I don’t follow you.”</p>

<p>“They are all made to a standard—interchangeable?”</p>

<p>Mr. Illingworth whistled.</p>

<p>“Gee! I’m beginning to get you! Yes, they’re
all made standard. There are several models, you
understand, but all the magnetos of any given model
are interchangeable.”</p>

<p>“Good! Now tell me, what’s to prevent my man
from buying a duplicate magneto, damaging the
armature winding invisibly with a needle, and
running it on his car till it gives up; then taking it off,
carrying it as a spare, and putting it on again when
he had got the car to the point of breakdown?”</p>

<p>“You’ve got it, Mr. French! Great, that is! I
didn’t think it was possible, and there, as you say,
it’s as simple as A B C.”</p>

<p>“Well,” said French. “Then did he?”</p>

<p>Illingworth looked his question and French went
on:</p>

<p>“I’m looking to you for proof of the theory.
First, do these magnetos carry a number? If so,
is there a record of the number fitted to each car?
If so, what was the number supplied with Mr.
Berlyn’s car? Next, is that the number that came in
for repair? Next, was there a magneto of that type
ordered separately recently, and if so, by whom?”</p>

<p>“Steady on, Mr. French,” Mr. Illingworth
laughed. “What do you take me for? I’m not a
detective. Now let’s go over that again, one thing
at a time. Magnetos carry a number, yes, and we
have a note of the numbers supplied to the different
car manufacturers. They can tell you the
number of the magneto they put on any given car. What
car are you interested in?”</p>

<p>“A fifteen-twenty four-seater Mercury touring
car, number thirty-seven thousand and sixteen,
supplied through Makepeace to a Mr. Berlyn of
Ashburton.”</p>

<p>“Right. I’ll ring up the Mercury people now.”</p>

<p>Mr. Illingworth was indefatigable in his enquiries,
but he was not prepared for the state of delighted
enthusiasm into which his results threw French.</p>

<p>“That’s got it,” the latter cried, eagerly. “A
long shot, but a bull’s-eye! I have to thank you
for it, Mr. Illingworth, and you don’t know how
grateful I am.”</p>

<p>The first fact was not encouraging. The magneto
which had been supplied originally with Mr.
Berlyn’s car was the same that had been sent in by
Makepeace with the short-circuited winding. So
far, therefore, the breakdown might have been genuine
enough. But it was the second item which had so
transported French. A precisely similar magneto
had been sold as a spare about a month earlier and
under circumstances which left no doubt as to the
motive. It had been ordered by a Mr. Henry
Armstrong, in a typewritten letter headed “The
Westcliff Hotel, Bristol,” and it was to be sent to the
parcels office at St. David’s Station, Exeter, marked,
“To be kept till called for.” The letter was being
sent over by hand, and when French received it a
few minutes later he saw that it had been typed
by the same machine as that ordering the
duplicator.</p>

<p>“That’s fine, Mr. Illingworth,” he repeated in
high delight. “That’s one of my major difficulties
overcome. I just want you to tell me one other
thing. How long would it take to change the
magneto—out in the country on a dark night?”</p>

<p>“It’s a half-hour’s job for a skilled man. The
actual lifting in and out of the machine is easy,
but the setting is the trouble. The contact-breaker,
as I’m sure you know, has to be set so as to give
the spark at the right point in the engine cycle.
That takes a bit of time.”</p>

<p>“I follow that. But is there no way that the
adjustable parts could be set beforehand to save that
time?”</p>

<p>“That’s right. They could be marked and
everything set to the marks. That would speed things
up.”</p>

<p>“By how much, should you say?”</p>

<p>“With everything marked, a man could do the
whole thing in fifteen minutes.”</p>

<p>“Good!” said French. “I guess that’s everything
at last.”</p>

<p>He returned to Paddington and caught the 1.30
express for Exeter. He was overjoyed at his
progress. The issue was rapidly narrowing.</p>

<p>How rapidly it was narrowing struck him even
more forcibly as he thought of a further point. The
trick had been played with Berlyn’s car. Could it
have been done without Berlyn’s knowledge? Could,
in fact, anyone but Berlyn have carried it out?
French did not think so. It was beginning to look
as if the solution of the whole problem were in
sight.</p>

<p>At Exeter he went about the package. As far
as book entries were concerned, he was quickly
satisfied. But no one remembered the transaction, nor
could anyone recall enquiries having been made by
a tallish, red-faced man with light hair and glasses.</p>

<p>Nothing daunted, French caught the last train
from Exeter to Ashburton, full of an eager anxiety
to get to grips with his remaining problems.</p>



<h2>Chapter Eleven: John Gurney, Night Watchman</h2>

<p>French had now reconciled the apparent
contradiction in regard to one of his four test points.
Obviously his next job was to clear up the other
three.</p>

<p>As he considered on which he should first
concentrate, his mind fastened on the one point which
at the time had seemed not completely satisfactory—the
slightly suspicious manner of Gurney, the
night watchman. During the night, as he now knew,
the body of Stanley Pyke had been taken to the
works and put into the crate. It was impossible that
this could have been done without Gurney’s
knowledge. Gurney must be made to speak.</p>

<p>Accordingly, after breakfast next morning he set
off to the man’s house. He passed out of the town
on the Newton Abbot road, then turning into a lane
to the left, struck up the side of the valley. Soon
he reached the cottage, a tiny place with deep
overhanging eaves and creeper-covered walls. In front
was a scrap of well-kept garden and in the garden
was the man himself.</p>

<p>“Good morning, Gurney,” French greeted him.
“I thought you would have been in bed by now.”</p>

<p>“I be just going,” answered the old man. “I
came out an’ begun a bit o’ weeding an’ the time
ran round without my noticing.”</p>

<p>“That’s lucky for me,” said French, heartily. “I
want a word with you. A nice place you’ve got
here.”</p>

<p>“Not too bad, it ain’t,” the other admitted,
looking about him with obvious pride. “The soil’s a
bit ’eavy, but it don’t do so bad.”</p>

<p>“Good for your roses, surely? Those are fine
ones beside the house.”</p>

<p>Gurney laid aside his hoe and led the way to the
really magnificent bed of La Frances to which
French had pointed. It was evident that these were
the old man’s passion. French was not a gardener,
but he knew enough to talk intelligently on the
subject and his appreciation evidently went straight to
the watchman’s heart. For some minutes they
discussed horticulture, and then French wore
gradually round to the object of his visit.</p>

<p>“Terrible business that about Mr. Berlyn and
Mr. Pyke,” he essayed. “It must have set this
town talking.”</p>

<p>“It didn’t ’alf, sir. Everyone was sorry for the
poor gentlemen. They was well liked, they was.”</p>

<p>“And that was another terrible affair,” pursued
French after the local tragedy had been adequately
discussed, “that finding of the dead body in the
crate. Extraordinary how the body could have been
put in.”</p>

<p>“I didn’t ’ear naught about that,” Gurney
answered, with a sudden increase of interest. “You
don’t mean the crate you was speaking about that
day you was up at the works?”</p>

<p>“No other. Keep it to yourself and I’ll tell you
about it.” French became deeply impressive. “That
crate that I was enquiring about was sent from here
to Swansea. There it was called for by a man who
took it on a lorry to a place called Burry Port
and threw it into the sea. A fisherman chanced to
hook it and it was brought ashore more than a
month later. And when it was opened the dead
body of a man was found inside.”</p>

<p>“Lord save us! I read in the noospaper about
that there body being found, but it fair beats me
that the crate came from ’ere, it does.”</p>

<p>French continued to enlarge on the tale. That
Gurney’s surprise was genuine he felt certain. He
could have sworn that the man had no inkling of the
truth. But he marked, even more acutely than
before, a hesitation or self-consciousness that
indicated an uneasy mind. There was something; he
felt sure of it. He glanced at the man with his
shrewd, observant eyes and suddenly determined on
directness.</p>

<p>“Look here, Gurney,” he said. “Come over and
sit on this seat. I have something important to say
to you.” He paused as if considering his words.
“You thought a good deal of your employers, those
two poor men who were lost on the moor?”</p>

<p>“An’ I had reason to. It wasn’t an accident
’appening in the execution of my dooty, as you might
say, as made me lame and not fit to work. It was
rheumatism, and they could ’ave let me go when I
couldn’t work no more. But they found this job for
me and they let me the ’ouse cheap. Of course it
was Mr. Berlyn as ’ad the final say, but I know as
Mr. Pyke spoke for me. It wasn’t everyone as
would ’ave done that, now was it, sir?”</p>

<p>Consideration on the part of an employer was
not, French knew, to be taken as a matter of course,
though it was vastly more common than the unions
would have the public believe. But gratitude on
the part of an employee was not so frequent, though
it was by no means unique. Its exhibition, however,
in the present instance confirmed French in the
course he was taking.</p>

<p>“Now, Gurney, do you know who I am?” he
went on. “I’m an inspector from Scotland Yard
and I’m down here to try to solve these two
mysteries. Because, Gurney, do you know what I think?
I think that on that night the body of one of these
two gentlemen was taken to the works and put into
the crate.”</p>

<p>Gurney started and paled. “Lord save us!” he
muttered. “But wot about the accident?”</p>

<p>“There was no accident,” French replied, sternly.
“There was murder. Who committed it, I don’t
know at present. Where the other body is, if there
is another body, I don’t yet know. But I have no
doubt about one of the bodies. It was put into the
crate on that night.”</p>

<p>Gurney moistened his dry lips.</p>

<p>“But——” he began, and his voice died away
into silence.</p>

<p>“That’s it,” French went on, impressively. “Now,
Gurney, I’m not accusing you of anything. But
you know something. You needn’t attempt to deny
it, because it has been plain to me from the first
moment I spoke to you. Come now. Something
out of the common took place that night. What
was it?”</p>

<p>Gurney did not deny the charge. Instead he sat
motionless, with scared, unhappy eyes. French
remained silent also; then he said, quietly:</p>

<p>“What was it? Were you away from your post
that night?”</p>

<p>“No, sir, not that. I was there all the time,”
the other answered, earnestly. Again he paused,
then with a sudden gesture he went on: “I didn’t
know nothing about what you ’ave been saying, but
I see now I must tell you everything, even if I gets
the sack over it.”</p>

<p>“You’ll not get the sack if I can help it,” French
said, kindly, “but go on and tell me, all the same.”</p>

<p>“Well, sir, I did that night wot I never did
before nor since. I slept the ’ole night through.
I sat down to eat my supper in the boiler-’ouse like
I always does, an’ I didn’t remember nothing more
till Peter Small ’e was standing there shaking me.
‘Wake up,’ ’e says; ‘you’re a nice sort of a night
watchman, you are.’ ‘Lord,’ I says. ‘I never did
nothing like that before,’ an’ I asks him not to say
nothing about it. An’ ’e didn’t say nothing, nor
I didn’t, neither. But now I suppose it’ll come out
an’ I’ll get wot for about it.”</p>

<p>“Don’t you worry about that,” French said,
heartily. “I’ll see you through. I’ll undertake to
get Mr. Fogden to overlook this little irregularity
on one condition. You must tell me everything that
took place that night without exception. Go ahead
now and let’s have the whole of it.”</p>

<p>The old man gazed at him in distress.</p>

<p>“But there weren’t naught else,” he protested. “I
went to sleep, an’ that’s all. If there were anything
else took place, w’y I didn’t see it.”</p>

<p>“That’s all right. Now just answer my questions.
Go back to when you left your house. What time
was that?”</p>

<p>“The usual time, about twenty minutes to seven.”</p>

<p>“You brought your supper with you?”</p>

<p>“Yes, sir.”</p>

<p>“Who prepared it?”</p>

<p>“My wife.”</p>

<p>“Did you meet anyone on your way to the
works?”</p>

<p>“Well, I couldn’t rightly say. No one that I
remember.”</p>

<p>“No one could have got hold of your supper,
anyway?”</p>

<p>The man started. “You think it might ’ave been
tampered with?” he queried. He thought for some
moments, then shook his head. “No, sir, I’m afraid
not. I don’t never let my basket out o’ my ’and
till I gets to the boiler-’ouse.”</p>

<p>“Very well. Now when you got to the
boiler-house?”</p>

<p>“I put it where I always do, beside one o’ the
boilers.”</p>

<p>“And you left it there?”</p>

<p>“While I made my rounds, I did. But there wasn’t
no one else in the works then.”</p>

<p>“How do you know?”</p>

<p>Gurney hesitated. In the last resort he didn’t
know. But he had not seen anyone and did not
believe anyone had been there.</p>

<p>“But suppose some one had been hidden in the
works,” French persisted. “He could have
doctored your supper while you were on your rounds?”</p>

<p>“If there ’ad been ’e might,” the man admitted.
“But I didn’t see no one.”</p>

<p>“What time do you have your meal?”</p>

<p>Gurney, it appeared, had two meals during the
night. Time hung heavy on his hands and the
meals made a break. He had his dinner about six,
started work at seven, and had his first meal about
eleven. His second meal he had about three, and
he was relieved at six.</p>

<p>On the night in question he had his first meal at
the usual time. Until then he had felt perfectly
normal, but he had scarcely finished when he found
himself growing overpoweringly sleepy, and the next
thing he remembered was being wakened by the
fireman at six the next morning.</p>

<p>“It’s clear that your supper was doped,” French
said. “Now think, did nothing in any way out of
the common happen between six and eleven?”</p>

<p>Gurney began a denial, then stopped.</p>

<p>“There were one thing,” he said, slowly, “but I
don’t believe as ’ow it could have ’ad anything to do
with it. A little before ten there were a ring at the
office door. I went to open, but there weren’t no
one there. I didn’t think naught of it, because
children do ring sometimes just by way o’ mischief.
But there weren’t no children there so far as I could
see.”</p>

<p>“How far is this door that you opened from the
boiler-house?”</p>

<p>“At t’other end o’ the building. Two ’undred
yards, maybe.”</p>

<p>“Is that the only door?”</p>

<p>“No, sir, there be a gate near the boilers for
lorries, but people going to the office use the other.”</p>

<p>“Is the large gate locked at night?”</p>

<p>“Yes, sir.”</p>

<p>“Who keeps the key?”</p>

<p>“I do. There’s a key in the office that any o’
the gentlemen can get if they wants, but I carry
one with me.”</p>

<p>For some moments French sat thinking, then a
fresh point struck him.</p>

<p>“What did your supper consist of on that night?”</p>

<p>“Tea an’ bread an’ butter and a slice o’ meat. I
have a can o’ tea. I leave it on the boiler and it
keeps ’ot.”</p>

<p>“You mean that you don’t make your tea
separately for each meal? You drink some out of the
can at the first meal and finish what is left at the
second?”</p>

<p>“That’s right, sir.”</p>

<p>“And the same with food?”</p>

<p>“Yes, sir.”</p>

<p>“Now on the night we’re talking about you had
only one meal. You slept through the time of the
second. What happened to the tea and food that
was left over?”</p>

<p>“We ’ad it for breakfast, my wife an’ I.”</p>

<p>“That is what I wanted to get at. Now did
either of you feel sleepy after breakfast?”</p>

<p>A mixture of admiration and wonder showed in
the old man’s eyes.</p>

<p>“Why, no, we didn’t, an’ that’s a fact,” he said
in puzzled tones. “An’ we should ’ave if so be
as wot you think is true.”</p>

<p>This looked like a snag, but French reminded
himself that at the moment he was only getting
information and his theorising could wait till later.
He continued his questions, but without learning
much more.</p>

<p>“Now, Gurney,” he said at last, “under no
circumstances are you to mention what we have been
speaking of—not to your wife nor to Mr. Fogden nor to
anyone. You understand?”</p>

<p>“I understand, sir, right enough.”</p>

<p>“Very good. Now I’m anxious to go into this
matter further, and I’ll call at the works to-night.”</p>

<p>“Right, sir. I’ll be on the lookout.”</p>

<p>It was dark as French rang at the big gate of the
works. Gurney soon appeared at the wicket and
French followed him across the yard to the boiler-house,
a distance of perhaps forty yards. It was a
fair-sized shed, housing five Babcock &amp; Wilcox
water-tube boilers with mechanical stokers and the
usual stoker engines and pumps. On a ledge of the
warm brickwork near one of the ash openings stood
the old man’s can of tea, and his basket of food was
placed on the repair bench close by. French took in
these details and then said:</p>

<p>“I want now to try an experiment. Will you
lend me your key of the wicket. I will go out, lock
the wicket behind me, and go round to the office
door and ring. When you hear the ring you go and
open. Repeat everything exactly as you did that
night so as to get back here at the same time. In
the meantime I shall let myself in again by the
wicket and see if I should have time to dope your
tea and get away again before you appear. You
understand?”</p>

<p>This program was carried out. French went out
and rang at the office door, then ran round to the
large gate, let himself in through the wicket, found
the can of tea, opened it and counted ten, closed it
and relocked the wicket. Then he began to time.
Three minutes passed before Gurney appeared.</p>

<p>So that was all right. Anyone who had access
to the key in the office could have doctored the
watchman’s food. Moreover, the fact that the
Gurneys had breakfasted without ill effect on the
remainder was not such a difficulty as French had at
first supposed. The criminal might have doped the
tea on his first visit and during his second poured
away what was over and replaced it with fresh. In
fact, if he were to preserve his secret he must have
done so. The discovery of the drugging would have
started an enquiry which might have brought to
light the whole plot.</p>

<p>Though French was enthusiastic about his
discovery, he saw that it involved one disconcerting
point. What about the theory of Berlyn’s guilt?
The ring at the office door had come shortly before
ten. But shortly before ten Berlyn was at Tavistock.
Therefore some other person was involved. Was
this person the murderer and had he made away
with Berlyn as well as Pyke? Or was he Berlyn’s
accomplice? French inclined to the latter supposition.
In considering the timing of the car he had
seen that it could have been used to carry the body
to the works provided an accomplice was ready to
drive it back to the moor without delay. On the
whole, therefore, it looked as if the murder was
the work of two persons, of whom Berlyn was
one.</p>

<p>But whether principal or accomplice, it was at
least certain that the man who had drugged Gurney’s
food knew the works intimately and had access to
the key in the office. Only a comparatively small
number of persons could fill these requirements and
he should, therefore, be quickly found.</p>

<p>Well pleased with his day’s work, French
returned to the hotel and spent the remainder of the
evening in writing up his diary.</p>



<h2>Chapter Twelve: The Duplicator</h2>

<p>The saying “it never rains but what it pours” is a
popular expression of the unhappy fact that
misfortunes never come singly. Fortunately for
suffering humanity, the phrase expresses only half the
truth. Runs of good luck occur as well as runs
of bad.</p>

<p>As French was smoking his after-breakfast pipe
in the lounge next morning it was borne in on him
that he was at that time experiencing one of the
most phenomenal runs of good luck that had ever
fallen to his lot. Four days ago he had proved
that the dead man was Pyke. Two days later he
had learned how the breakdown of the car had
been faked. Yesterday he had found the explanation
of the watchman’s inaction, and to-day, just at
that very moment, an idea had occurred to him
which bade fair to solve the problem of the disposal
of the duplicator! Unfortunately, nothing could be
done towards putting it to the test until the evening.
He spent the day, therefore, in a long tramp on the
moor, then about five o’clock walked for the second
time to Gurney’s house.</p>

<p>“I want to have another chat with you,” he
explained. “I haven’t time to wait now, but I shall
come up to the works later in the evening. Listen
out for my ring.”</p>

<p>He strolled back to the town, had a leisurely
dinner, visited the local picture house, and killed
time until after eleven. Then when the little town
was asleep he went up to the works. Five minutes
later he was seated with Gurney in the boiler-house.</p>

<p>“I have been thinking over this affair, Gurney,”
he began, “and I am more than ever certain that
some terrible deeds were done here on that night
when you were drugged. I want to have another
look around. But you must not under any
circumstances let it be known that I was here.”</p>

<p>“That’s all right, guv’nor. I ain’t goin’ to say
nothing.”</p>

<p>French nodded.</p>

<p>“You told me that you had been a mechanic in
the works before your rheumatism got bad. Have
you worked at any of those duplicators like what
was packed in the crate?”</p>

<p>“I worked at all kinds of erecting works—duplicators
an’ files an’ indexes an’ addressing machines
an’ all the rest o’ them. I knows them all.”</p>

<p>“Good! Now I want you to come round to the
store and show me the different parts of a
duplicator.”</p>

<p>Gurney led the way from the boiler-house.</p>

<p>“Don’t switch on the light,” French directed. “I
don’t want the windows to show lit up. I have a
torch.”</p>

<p>They passed through the packing-shed and into
the completed-machine store adjoining. Here
French called a halt.</p>

<p>“Just let’s look at one of these duplicators again,”
he said. “Suppose you wanted to take one of them
to pieces, let me see how you would set about it.
Should I be correct in saying that if five or six of
the larger pieces were got rid of, all the rest could
be carried in a handbag?”</p>

<p>“That’s right, sir.”</p>

<p>“Now show me the bins where these larger parts
are stocked.”</p>

<p>They passed on to the part store and across it to
a line of bins labelled “Duplicators.” In the first
bin were rows of leg castings. French ran his eye
along them.</p>

<p>“There must be fifty or sixty here,” he said,
slowly. “Let’s see if that is a good guess.”</p>

<p>On every bin was a stock card in a metal holder.
French lifted down that in question. It was divided
into three sets of columns, one set showing incomes,
the second outgoes, and the third the existing stock.
The date of each transaction was given, and for
each entry the stock was adjusted.</p>

<p>“Not such a bad guess,” French remarked, slowly,
as he scrutinised the entries. “There are just
fifty-four.”</p>

<p>The card was large and was nearly full. French
noticed that it went back for some weeks before
the tragedy. He stood gazing at it in the light of
his torch while a feeling of bitter disappointment
grew in his mind. Then suddenly he thought he saw
what he was looking for, and whipping out a lens,
he examined one of the entries more closely. “Got
it, by Jove! I’ve actually got it!” he thought,
delightedly. His luck had held.</p>

<p>One of the entries had been altered. A loop
had been skilfully added to a six to make it an
eight. The card showed that two castings had been
taken out which either had never been taken out
at all or, more probably, which had been taken out
and afterwards replaced.</p>

<p>Convinced that he had solved the last of his four
test problems, French examined the cards of the
other bins. In all of those referring to large parts
he noticed the same peculiarity; the entries had been
tampered with to show that one more duplicator
had been sent out than really was the case. The
cards for the small parts were unaltered and French
could understand the reason. It was easier to get
rid of the parts themselves than to falsify their
records. The fraud was necessary only in the case
of objects too big and heavy to carry away.</p>

<p>French was highly pleased. His discovery was
not only valuable in itself, but he had reached it in
the way which most appealed to his vanity—from
his own imagination. He had imagined that the
fraud might have been worked in this way. He had
tested it and found that it had been. Pure brains!
Such things were soothing to his self-respect.</p>

<p>He stood considering the matter. The evidence
was valuable, but it was far from permanent. A
hint that suspicion was aroused, and it would be
gone. The criminal, if he were still about, would
see to it that innocuous copies of the cards were
substituted for these dangerous ones. French felt
he dare not run such a risk. Nor could he let
Gurney suspect his discovery, lest unwittingly the
old man might put the criminal on his guard. He
therefore went on:</p>

<p>“Now all I want is to make a sketch of each of
these parts. The duplicator which went out in the
crate may have been taken to pieces and I want to
be able to recognise them if they’re found. I
suppose I could get a sheet or two of paper in the
storeman’s desk?”</p>

<p>In one corner a small box with glass sides
constituted an office for the storeman. French led the
way thither. The door was closed but not locked.
The desk, which he next tried, was fastened. But
above it in a rack he saw what he was looking for,
a pile of blank bin-cards. He turned back.</p>

<p>“It doesn’t matter about the paper, after all,” he
explained. “I see the desk is locked. I can make
my sketches in my notebook, though it’s not so
convenient. But many a sketch I’ve made in it
before.”</p>

<p>Chatting pleasantly, he returned to the bins and
began slowly to sketch the leg casting. He was
purposely extremely slow and detailed in the work,
measuring every possible dimension and noting it
on his sketch. Gurney, as he had hoped, began to
get fidgety. French continued talking and
sketching. Suddenly he looked up.</p>

<p>“By the way,” he said, as if a new idea had
suddenly entered his mind, “there is no earthly need
for me to keep you here while I am working. It
will take me an hour or two to finish these sketches.
If you want to do your rounds and to get your
supper, go ahead. I’ll find you in the boiler-house
when I have done.”</p>

<p>Gurney seemed relieved. He explained that it
really was time to make his rounds and that if
French didn’t mind he would go and do so. French
reassured him heartily, and he slowly disappeared.</p>

<p>No sooner had his shuffling footsteps died away
than French became an extremely active man.
Quickly slipping the four faked cards from their
metal holders, he carried them to the office. Then
taking four fresh cards from the rack, he began
slowly and carefully to copy the others. He was
not a skilful forger, but at the end of half an hour’s
work he had produced four passable imitations.
Two minutes later he breathed more freely. The
copies were in the holders and the genuine cards
in his pocket. Hurriedly he resumed his sketching.</p>

<p>French’s work amounted to genius in the infinite
pains he took with detail. In twenty minutes his
sketches were complete and he effectually banished
any suspicion which his actions might have aroused
in Gurney’s mind by showing them to him when
he rejoined him in the boiler-house. Like an artist
he proceeded to establish the deception.</p>

<p>“Copies of these sketches sent to the men who are
searching for the duplicator will help them to
recognise parts of it if it has been taken to pieces,” he
explained. “You see the idea?”</p>

<p>Gurney appreciated the point, and French, after
again warning him to be circumspect, left the works.</p>

<p>The problem of what he should do next was
solved for French by the receipt of a letter by the
early post. It was written on a half sheet of cheap
notepaper in an uneducated hand and read:</p>

<blockquote><div>

  <p class="address-right">Ashburton.</p>
  <p class="dateline">12th October.</p>

  <p class="address">Dear Sir,</p>

  <p>If you would come round some time that suits you I have
  something I could tell you that would maybe interest you.
  It’s better not wrote about.</p>

  <p class="signature">Lizzie Johnston.</p>

</div></blockquote>

<p>French had received too many communications
of the kind to be hopeful that this one would result
in anything valuable. However, he thought he
ought to see the ex-parlourmaid and once again he
made his way to her cottage.</p>

<p>“It’s my Alf,” she explained. “Alf Beer, they
call him. We’re being married as soon as he gets
another job.”</p>

<p>“He’s out of a job, then?”</p>

<p>“Yes, he was in the sales department in the works;
a packer, he was. He left there six months ago.”</p>

<p>“How was that?” French asked, sympathetically.</p>

<p>“He wasn’t well and he stayed home a few
mornings, and Mr. Berlyn had him up in his office and
spoke to him something wicked. Well, Alf wouldn’t
take that, not from no man living, so he said what
relieved his feelings and Mr. Berlyn told him he
could go.”</p>

<p>“And has he been doing nothing since?”</p>

<p>“Not steady, he hasn’t. Just jobbing, as you
might say.”</p>

<p>“Hard lines, that is. You say he had something
to tell me?”</p>

<p>The girl nodded. “That’s right,” was her
original reply.</p>

<p>“What is it, do you know?”</p>

<p>“He wouldn’t say. I told him you was in asking
questions and he seemed sort of interested. ‘Wants
to know about Berlyn and Pyke and Mrs. Berlyn’s
goings-on with Pyke, does he?’ he sez. ‘I thought
some one would be wanting to know about that
before long. Well, I can tell him something,’ he
sez.”</p>

<p>“But he didn’t mention what it was?”</p>

<p>“No. I asked him and he sez ‘Value for cash,’
he sez. ‘He puts down the beans and I cough up
the stuff. That’s fair, ain’t it?’ he sez. ‘Don’t be
a silly guff, Alf,’ I sez. ‘He’s police and if he asks
you questions, why, you don’t half have to answer
them.’ ‘The devil I have,’ he sez. ‘I ain’t done no
crime and he hasn’t nothing on me. You tell him,’
he sez, ‘tell him I know something that would be
worth a quid or two to him.’ And so I wrote you
that note.”</p>

<p>“Tell me why you thought I was police,” French
invited.</p>

<p>Miss Johnston laughed scornfully.</p>

<p>“Well, ain’t you?” she parried.</p>

<p>“That’s hardly an answer to my question.”</p>

<p>“Well, everybody knows what you’re after. They
say you think Pyke was murdered on the moor and
that Berlyn murdered him. Leastways, that’s what
I’ve heard said.”</p>

<p>This was something more than a blow to French,
and his self-esteem reeled under it. For the <i>n</i>th
time he marvelled at the amazing knowledge of
other people’s business to be found in country
districts. The small country town, he thought, was the
absolute limit! There he was, moving continually
among the townspeople, none of whom gave the
least sign of interest in his calling, yet evidently they
had discussed him and his affairs to some purpose.
The garrulous landlady, Mrs. Billing, was no doubt
responsible for the murder of Pyke becoming known,
but the belief that he, French, suspected Berlyn of
murdering him was really rather wonderful.</p>

<p>“It seems to me,” he said with a rather sickly
smile, “that your townspeople are better detectives
than ever came out of Scotland Yard. So your
young man thinks I’m police and wants to turn an
honest penny, does he? Where am I to find him?”</p>

<p>“He’ll be at home. He’s living with his father
at the head of East Street—a single red house on
the left-hand side just beyond the town.”</p>

<p>In the leisurely, holiday-like way he had adopted,
French crossed the town and half an hour later had
introduced himself to Mr. Alfred Beer. Lizzie’s
Alf was a stalwart young man with a heavy face and
a sullen, discontented expression. French, sizing
him up rapidly, decided that the suave method
would scarcely meet the case.</p>

<p>“You are Alfred Beer, engaged to Lizzie
Johnston, the former servant at Mr. Berlyn’s?” he
began.</p>

<p>“That’s right, mister.”</p>

<p>“I am a police officer investigating the deaths of
Mr. Berlyn and Mr. Pyke. You have some
information for me?”</p>

<p>“I don’t altogether know that,” Beer answered,
slowly. “Just wot did you want to know?”</p>

<p>“What you have to tell me,” French said, sharply.
“You told Miss Johnston you had some information
and I’ve come up to hear it.”</p>

<p>The man looked at him calculatingly.</p>

<p>“Wot do you think it might be worth to you?”
he queried.</p>

<p>“Not a brass farthing. You should know that
witnesses are not paid for their evidence. Don’t
you misunderstand the situation, Beer, or you’ll find
things mighty unpleasant. Come along now. Out
with it.”</p>

<p>“How can I tell you if you won’t say wot you
want?”</p>

<p>“I wouldn’t talk to you any more, Beer, only, I
think you don’t understand where you are,” French
answered, quietly. “This is a murder case. Mr.
Pyke has been murdered. If you know anything
that might help the police to discover the murderer
and you don’t tell it, you become an accessory after
the fact. Do you realise that you’d get a good
spell of years for that?”</p>

<p>Beer gave an uncouth shrug and turned back to
his digging.</p>

<p>“I don’t know nothing about no murder,” he
declared, contemptuously. “I was just pulling Lizzie’s
leg.”</p>

<p>“You’ve done it now,” French said, producing his
card. “There’s my authority as a police officer.
You’ve wasted my time and kept me back from my
work. That’s obstruction and you’ll get six months
for it. Come along to the station. And unless
you want a couple of years you’ll come quietly.”</p>

<p>This was not what the man expected.</p>

<p>“Wot’s that?” he stammered. “You ain’t going
to arrest me? I ain’t done nothin’ against the law,
I ain’t.”</p>

<p>“You’ll soon find out about that. Look sharp
now. I can’t spend the day here waiting for you.”</p>

<p>“Aw!” The man shifted nervously. “See,
mister, I ain’t done no harm, I ain’t. I don’t know
nothing about no murder. I don’t, honest.”</p>

<p>“I don’t want to be hard on you,” French
answered. “If you tell your story without any more
humbugging I’ll let the rest go. But I warn you,
you needn’t start inventing any yarn. What you say
will be gone into, and Heaven help you if it’s not
true.”</p>

<p>“I’ll take my davy it’s true, mister, but it ain’t
about no murder.”</p>

<p>“Well, get along sharp and let’s hear it.”</p>

<p>“It was one night about six months ago,” said
Beer, now speaking almost eagerly. “Me and Lizzie
were walking out at that time. Well, that night
we’d fixed up for to go for a walk, and then at the
last minute she couldn’t get away. Mrs. Berlyn
was goin’ out or somethin’, and she couldn’t get off.
We’d ’ad it fixed up that when that ’appened Lizzie
would come down to the shrubbery after the rest
’ad gone to bed. Well, I wanted to see ’er that
night for to fix up some little business between
ourselves, so I went up to the ’ouse and gave the
sign—three taps with a tree branch at ’er window. You
understand?”</p>

<p>French nodded.</p>

<p>“Well, I went back into the shrubbery for to
wait for her. It was dark, but a quiet night. An’
then I ’eard voices an’ steps comin’ along the path.
So I got behind a bush so as they’d not see me.
There was a man and a woman, an’ when they
came close I knew them by their voices. It was
Pyke and Mrs. Berlyn. I stayed still an’ they passed
me close.”</p>

<p>“Go ahead. Did you hear what they said, or
what are you getting at?”</p>

<p>“I ’eard wot they said when they were passing.
‘I tell you ’e knows,’ she said. ‘I’m frightened,’ she
said. ‘You don’t know him. If ’e once thinks you’ve
played ’im false ’e’ll make a ’ell of a trouble.’ An’
then Pyke says: ‘Nonsense!’ ’e said. ‘ ’E’s not that
sort. Besides,’ ’e said, ‘ ’e don’t know anything.
’E knows we’re friends, but that’s all.’ ‘No,’ she
said, ‘I’m sure ’e knows or ’e guesses, anyway. We’ll
’ave to separate,’ she said. ’E said they ’ad been
careful enough, and then they went past an’ I
didn’t ’ear no more.”</p>

<p>“That all?”</p>

<p>“That’s all,” said Beer, disgustedly. “Ain’t it
enough?”</p>

<p>“Nothing to boast about,” French replied,
absently. He remembered that the man had been
dismissed by Berlyn and he wondered if this statement
was merely the result of spite. He therefore
questioned him closely. But he was unable to shake him
and he formed the opinion that the story was true.</p>

<p>If so, it certainly had a pretty direct bearing on
the theory he was trying to evolve, for there could
be little doubt as to who “ ’e” was. As he
considered the matter he was surprised to find how
complete that theory was and how much of it had
been definitely established. There were gaps, of
course, but there was no doubt as to its general
correctness.</p>

<p>As French now saw it, the affair stood as follows:</p>

<p>Stanley Pyke and Phyllis Berlyn, friends during
childhood, find that they love each other when they
renew their acquaintance in later years. But it is
then too late for the course of true love to run
smooth and a clandestine attachment follows.
Berlyn learns of this some four months before the
tragedy and as a result of his interference the two
decide to discontinue their meetings—in public, at
all events. The flirtation with Colonel Domlio is
possibly deliberately undertaken by Mrs. Berlyn
to prove to her husband that her interest in Pyke is
over.</p>

<p>But the two find that they cannot give each other
up and the intrigue is continued secretly. Berlyn,
however, is not hoodwinked. He sees his friend
betraying him and he determines on vengeance.</p>

<p>His first move is to get an accomplice to assist
in the details. Here French admitted to himself
that he was out of his depth. He could not imagine
who the accomplice was or why he should have been
required. But if Berlyn were guilty, the murder was
clearly a two-man job. Simultaneous activities in
different places proved it.</p>

<p>The arrangements about the crate are next made.
French was aware that these had not yet been
properly followed up; other matters had been more
urgent. But they represented a second string to his
bow which he would develop if necessary.</p>

<p>Then comes the night of the crime. While
Berlyn and Pyke are at Tavistock, the accomplice drugs
the watchman’s food. He then waits for the car.
Pyke is sandbagged and his body carried into the
works. One of the men then unpacks the crate,
and taking the duplicator to pieces, returns the
larger parts to stock. He has already doctored the
cards, as well, necessarily, as the corresponding
books. He then strips the recognisable clothes off
the body, puts the latter in the crate, smashes in the
face, closes the crate, and leaves all as before.
Finally he escapes with Berlyn’s outer clothes and
the smaller parts of the duplicator. He has only to
get rid of these and his part in the ghastly business
is complete.</p>

<p>In the meantime his confederate has driven the
car out to a lonely part of the moor, changed the
magneto, and made the tracks leading from the
road.</p>

<p>The facts which pointed to Berlyn’s guilt were
sixfold:</p>

<p>1. Berlyn in all probability was consumed by
jealousy, one of the strongest of human motives
for crime.</p>

<p>2. Berlyn had an unparalleled opportunity for
the deed, which only he could have arranged.</p>

<p>3. It was not easy to see how anyone but Berlyn
could have handled the magneto affair.</p>

<p>4. Berlyn had the necessary position in the Veda
Works to carry out the watchman and stock-card
episodes.</p>

<p>5. Berlyn answered the description of the man
who had called for the crate.</p>

<p>6. Berlyn had disappeared, an incomprehensible
action if he were innocent.</p>

<p>As French thought again over the accomplice, he
recognised that here was the snag in his theory.
Motives of personal jealousy and private wrong
leave no room for an accomplice. Moreover, it
was incredible that a man who had shown such
ingenuity could not have devised a scheme to carry
out the crime single-handed.</p>

<p>But though French recognised that there were
points in the case as yet unexplained, he saw that
his own procedure was clear. He must start the
search for Berlyn and he must learn the identity
of the accomplice.</p>

<p>The first of these was easy. He had compiled
a pretty accurate description of the junior partner
and Daw had got hold of his photograph. A note
in the <i>Police Gazette</i> would start every police officer
in the country on the search.</p>

<p>The second problem he found more difficult. Rack
his brains as he would, he could think of no one
who might have helped Berlyn.</p>

<p>He thought his next plan would be an enquiry
into the whereabouts at ten o’clock, on the night of
the crime, of everyone whom it was possible to
suspect. That, coupled with an investigation as to who
was in London when the various letters were posted,
should yield results.</p>

<p>The fact that a number of possible suspects had
been at Mrs. Berlyn’s party from eight to eleven
on the fatal evening seemed to rule them out. But
French thought he should get some more definite
information on the point. Accordingly, he went up
to the works and asked for Mr. Fogden, one of
those whom Lizzie Johnston had mentioned as being
present.</p>

<p>“I heard a peculiar story about Mrs. Berlyn,” he
said <i lang="fr">a propos</i> of nothing special when they had
talked for some time. “I was told she had a
premonition of Mr. Berlyn’s death and was miserable
and upset all that evening of the crime. A peculiar
thing, if true, isn’t it?”</p>

<p>“Who told you that?” Mr. Fogden asked,
sceptically.</p>

<p>“A chance remark in the bar of the Silver Tiger;
I don’t know the speaker’s name nor, of course, do
I know if his story was true.”</p>

<p>“Well, you may take it from me that it wasn’t.
I was at Mrs. Berlyn’s that evening and there was
nothing wrong with her that I saw.”</p>

<p>This gave French his lead. When he left the
office he had obtained all the details of the party
that he wanted. On the day before the crime Mr.
Fogden had had a telephone call from Mrs. Berlyn
saying that Berlyn was to be out on the following
evening and that she would be alone, and asking if
he and one or two of the others would come and
keep her company. Eight people had turned up,
including himself, Cowls and Leacock from the works,
a Dr. Lancaster and his wife, and two Miss Pyms
and a Miss Nesbitt from the town. All these people
were very intimate and the party was quite informal.
Some of them had played billiards, and the others
bridge.</p>

<p>This information seemed to French to eliminate
Fogden, Cowls, and Leacock, as well, of course, as
Mrs. Berlyn herself. He spent the remainder of
the day in racking his brains for other possible
accomplices and in thinking out ways to learn their
movements on the night in question.</p>

<p>Next morning he took up the matter of the
whereabouts of all suspects when the incriminating
letters were posted in London.</p>

<p>Fortunately, the enquiry presented but little
difficulty. A further application to Mr. Fogden
revealed the fact there was an attendance book at
the works which all the officers signed, from Mr.
Fogden himself down. This book showed that
everyone concerned was in Ashburton on the dates
of posting. Even Stanley Pyke, who was absent
five days out of six on his rounds, had been there.
Further, Mr. Fogden’s diary showed that he had
had interviews with Colonel Domlio on the critical
days. From Lizzie Johnston, French learned that
Mrs. Berlyn had also been at home during the
period.</p>

<p>French was more puzzled than ever. It looked
as if someone must have been mixed up in the affair
of whose existence he was still in ignorance.</p>

<p>Just as he was about to step into bed that night
an idea struck him which gave him sharply to think.
As he considered it he began to wonder if his whole
view of the crime were not mistaken. He suddenly
saw that the facts could bear a quite different
interpretation from that which he had placed upon them,
an interpretation, moreover, which would go far
towards solving the problem of the accomplice.</p>

<p>Once again he swung from depression to optimism
as, chuckling gently to himself, he decided that next
morning he would embark on a line of enquiry which
up to the present he had been stupid enough entirely
to overlook.</p>



<h2>Chapter Thirteen: The Accomplice?</h2>

<p>French’s new idea had been subconsciously in
his mind from the very first, but probably owing to
his theory of the guilt of one of the two men
supposed to be lost, he had never given it the
consideration he now saw that it deserved.</p>

<p>Suppose that on the night of the tragedy the lines
of footprints had not been faked. Suppose that
after leaving the car the two men had walked across
the moor <em>and reached Domlio’s</em>. Suppose that
Domlio was the moving spirit in the affair and
Berlyn merely the accomplice.</p>

<p>This idea, French thought, would account not
only for the facts which his previous theory had
covered, but also for nearly all of those which the
latter had failed to meet.</p>

<p>As before, the affair hinged on the fatal
attractiveness of Phyllis Berlyn, but in this case Domlio
was the victim. Suppose Domlio had fallen
desperately in love with Phyllis and that she had
encouraged him. So far from this being unlikely, the facts
bore it out. Different witnesses had testified to the
flirtation and Mrs. Berlyn herself had not denied it.</p>

<p>Domlio then would see that there was a double
barrier to the realisation of his desires. There was
of course Berlyn, but if Berlyn were out of the way
there was still Pyke. How far Mrs. Berlyn loved
Pyke, Domlio might not know, but their “affair”
was common knowledge and he would want to be
on the safe side. If murder were the way out in
one case, why not in both? The risk was probably
no greater, and once both his rivals were out of the
way, his own happiness was secured.</p>

<p>His plan decided on, he would approach his
friend Berlyn with insidious suggestions as to the
part Pyke was playing with his wife. Gradually he
would let it be known that he also had occasion
to hate Pyke—obviously for some quite different
reason. He would feed the other’s jealousy until
at last Berlyn would be as ready for the crime as
he was himself. Then he would put forward his
proposals.</p>

<p>Pyke was a cause of misery in both their lives;
they would combine to remove his evil influence.</p>

<p>Between them they would obtain and damage the
spare magneto, then arrange the visit to Tavistock
and the ordering of the crate and crane lorry.
Berlyn would require Pyke to accompany him to
Tavistock. All would be done without raising suspicion.</p>

<p>On the fatal night Domlio would go to the works
and drug Gurney’s supper. Later on, during the run
back from Tavistock, Berlyn would stop the car and
pretend to Pyke that it had broken down. He would
suggest looking up Domlio, who would certainly run
them into Ashburton in his own car. A light in the
colonel’s study would lead them direct to his French
window and Domlio would admit them without
letting his servants know of their call.</p>

<p>Domlio would immediately get out his car and
they would start for the town. A sandbag would
be in the car and on the way Pyke would be done
to death. The two men would then leave the car
in some deserted place, and carrying the body to the
works, would pack it in the crate. When the ghastly
work was done they would return to the car, taking
with them Pyke’s suit and the small parts of the
duplicator. These they would get rid of later.
Lastly they would change the magneto on Berlyn’s
car.</p>

<p>So far French was well pleased with his new
theory, but he realised that it contained a couple of
nasty snags.</p>

<p>In the first place, it did not account satisfactorily
for the disappearance of Berlyn. Presumably
Domlio had manœuvred his colleague into such a
position that he could give him away to the police with
safety to himself. Berlyn would therefore have
to do the other’s bidding, which would be to
disappear and to get rid of the crate. This was
possible, but there was not a shred of proof that it had
happened.</p>

<p>Secondly, the theory did not explain how the
letters were posted in London. However, though
French was not entirely satisfied, he grew more and
more convinced that he was on sure ground in
suspecting Domlio. At all events, his next job must be
to test the point.</p>

<p>First he decided to find out what Sergeant Daw
could tell him about the colonel and early next
morning saw him at the police station. The sergeant
greeted him with a peculiar smile.</p>

<p>“I suppose, sir, you’ve heard the rumor that’s
going round?” he asked at once.</p>

<p>“What’s that, Sergeant?”</p>

<p>“They say you’ve found out that Mr. Berlyn
murdered Mr. Pyke out on the moor that night.
Mrs. Billing, Pyke’s landlady, is supposed to have
recognised the underclothes.”</p>

<p>French smiled.</p>

<p>“Well it’s quite true,” he admitted. “I didn’t
mean to keep it from you, Sergeant, but I went off
to London as soon as I discovered it. I warned
Mrs. Billing not to talk, but I hardly believed she
could help herself.”</p>

<p>The sergeant was evidently upset.</p>

<p>“I’m sorry about the whole thing, Mr. French.
I should have thought Mr. Berlyn was the last man
who would do such a thing.”</p>

<p>“You may be right. Indeed, it’s a matter arising
out of that very point that I want to see you about.
I have a notion there was a second person in
it—some one who might even have taken the lead. Tell
me”—French’s voice became very confidential—“what
sort of a man is Colonel Domlio?”</p>

<p>The sergeant looked shocked.</p>

<p>“Colonel Domlio?” he repeated. “Surely, sir,
you don’t mean to suggest that the colonel was mixed
up in a murder?”</p>

<p>“You don’t think it likely?”</p>

<p>“I don’t, sir, and that’s a fact. The colonel’s a
very quiet man and peculiar in some ways, but he’s
well respected in the district.”</p>

<p>“So was many a murderer.”</p>

<p>The sergeant was clearly sceptical, though anxious
to be polite. He said he was sure Mr. French
would not speak without good reason, but his own
view was evident.</p>

<p>“Well, tell me all you know about him, anyway.”</p>

<p>Domlio, it appeared, was a man of about forty-five,
short, thickset, and dark. (Not the man who
called for the crate, thought French.) He was
very well off, and since his wife had died some six
years earlier, had lived alone with his servants in
his house on the moor. He held sufficient Veda
stock to give him a controlling interest in the firm,
acted as consulting engineer, and was usually
referred to as the senior partner. Entomology was
his pet hobby and it was believed that he was
writing a book on the insect life of the moor.</p>

<p>He had four servants. Inside was John Burt,
valet, butler, and general factotum, and his wife,
Sarah Burt, who combined the offices of cook and
general servant. Outside was an ex-service man
named Coombe, who acted as chauffeur and general
handy man, and an old gardener called Mee. Mee
lived with his wife and daughter in the gate lodge
and Coombe boarded with them. All, so far as the
sergeant knew, were reliable people of good
character.</p>

<p>“I’ll go out and see the colonel after lunch,”
French announced. “Could you lend me a push
bicycle? I don’t want all my movements reported
on by the driver of a car.”</p>

<p>“I can borrow one for you, but it’ll not be much
use on these hilly roads.”</p>

<p>“It’ll do all I want.”</p>

<p>A couple of hours later French set out. When
near Colonel Domlio’s gate he hid the bicycle in the
brushwood and approached the house on foot. It
was a smallish, creeper-covered building, L-shaped,
with thick walls and heavy overhanging eaves. At
least a hundred years old, French thought. It stood
some two hundred yards back from the road and
was approached by a drive which wound between
clumps of stunted trees and shrubs. In front was
a small lawn of mown grass, while between the trees
to the right French glimpsed the roofs of
outbuildings. The place had a cared-for appearance. The
woodwork of the house had been freshly painted, the
flower beds were tidy, and the grass edges had
recently been cut.</p>

<p>The door was opened by an elderly man in
butler’s dress, honest and kindly-looking, but rather
stupid. John Burt, evidently. He asked French to
step inside while he took his card to his master.</p>

<p>The hall was of fair size, with a large,
old-fashioned fireplace and lead-lighted windows.
French had not much time to observe it, for Burt
called him almost immediately into a room on the
left of the hall door.</p>

<p>It was long, low, and delightfully furnished as a
study. Bookcases lined the walls and a couple of
deep saddle-bag armchairs stood on the soft Chinese
carpet in front of the fireplace. A collector’s
entomological cabinet was in one corner, with close by
a table bearing books and a fine microscope. The
room was evidently in the corner of the house, for
there were French windows in adjacent walls. In
one of these was a leather-topped desk and at the
desk was seated a shortish man with a strong,
clean-shaven face, iron grey hair, and a not too amiable
expression. He rose as French entered.</p>

<p>“Inspector French of Scotland Yard, is it not?
I have heard that you were in the town.”</p>

<p>“That’s correct, sir,” French answered, taking
the chair to which the other pointed. “You’ve
probably heard enough, then, to guess my business?”</p>

<p>Colonel Domlio squared his shoulders.</p>

<p>“I heard you were investigating the deaths of
Mr. Berlyn and Mr. Pyke. I don’t know the object
of this call.”</p>

<p>“I’ve come, Colonel Domlio, in connection with
my investigation. I want to ask for your help in it.”</p>

<p>“What do you wish me to do?”</p>

<p>“Two things, sir. In the first place, I want any
information you can give me about either of the two
gentlemen you mentioned or anything which might
throw light on the tragedy. Secondly, I would be
obliged if you would answer the purely formal
question that we inspectors have to ask all who were in
any way connected with the victim of such a tragedy.
Where were you yourself at the time of the
occurrence?”</p>

<p>The colonel raised his eyebrows.</p>

<p>“Do you suspect me of murdering Mr. Pyke?” he
asked, drily.</p>

<p>“I think, sir, you needn’t take up that line.”
French’s tone was also a trifle dry. “I have
explained that my question is a formal one, invariably
put. You are not bound to answer it unless you
wish.”</p>

<p>“If I don’t you will suspect me in reality, so I
don’t see that I have much option. I was here, in
this room.”</p>

<p>“Between what hours?”</p>

<p>“During the whole evening. I finished dinner
about eight or a quarter past. Then I came in here
and stayed here until I went to bed between one and
two.”</p>

<p>“And no one came in during that time?”</p>

<p>“No one came in. I take nothing after dinner
except a little whisky going to bed, and I have
everything I want in the cupboard there. I’m writing a
book at present and I don’t like to be disturbed in
the evenings.”</p>

<p>“Then in the face of what you’ve said I presume
I needn’t ask you if you heard any sound at the door
or windows?”</p>

<p>“You need not.”</p>

<p>“And—excuse this question—you didn’t sleep at
all during the evening? No one could have knocked
while you were asleep?”</p>

<p>The Colonel smiled slightly.</p>

<p>“Ingenious,” he remarked, “but unproductive.
No, I didn’t sleep at all.”</p>

<p>“Thank you,” said French, “that disposes of one
question. Now the other. Can you tell me
anything likely to be helpful to me about either of the
two gentlemen?”</p>

<p>The colonel regretted that in this case also he
could do nothing to oblige. He would answer Mr.
French’s questions so far as he could, but he had
nothing to volunteer. And French found that after
half an hour’s interrogation he had learnt just
nothing whatever.</p>

<p>“There is one other matter to which I must
refer,” he said. “I regret the necessity, as it’s
somewhat delicate. Common report says that Mrs.
Berlyn was on very intimate terms first with Mr. Pyke
and then with yourself. Would you tell me how far
that is true?”</p>

<p>The colonel squared his shoulders again and
French presently saw that it was an unconscious
nervous trick.</p>

<p>“Is it really necessary that Mrs. Berlyn’s name
should be dragged in?” he asked, stiffly.</p>

<p>“I’m afraid so. You will recognise that I am
trying to find motives.”</p>

<p>“I don’t think you will find one there.”</p>

<p>“On the contrary, Colonel Domlio, I have
evidence that Mr. Berlyn was acutely jealous.”</p>

<p>But the colonel was not to be drawn.</p>

<p>“That is news to me,” he declared.</p>

<p>“Well,” said French, doggedly, “I should like to
have your definite statement as to whether such
jealousy would or would not have been justified, in
so far, at all events, as you yourself were
concerned.”</p>

<p>The colonel smiled sardonically.</p>

<p>“I should say that it would not have been
justified.”</p>

<p>“Very good, Colonel. I have now only one other
request to make. I should like to interrogate your
servants. Some of them may have seen or heard
something which might be useful to me. Would
you oblige me by calling them in and instructing
them to reply to me?”</p>

<p>For the first time an uneasy look appeared in the
colonel’s eyes.</p>

<p>“Surely that is unnecessary?” he demurred.
“What could they possibly tell you?”</p>

<p>“Nothing, I very greatly fear,” French admitted.
“But it is a routine enquiry and as such I dare not
omit it.”</p>

<p>With an evident ill grace Colonel Domlio rang
the bell. French, sensing his opposition, had
become keenly alert. It seemed to him that he might
be on the brink of learning something important.
But instantly he decided that he would postpone
serious examination of the staff until he had them
to himself.</p>

<p>The butler, Burt, answered the bell.</p>

<p>“This gentleman is Mr. French, Burt,” said the
colonel. “He wants to ask you some questions.
You might answer him so far as you can.”</p>

<p>“It was only to know whether you heard or saw
anything unusual on the night of the deaths of Mr.
Berlyn and Mr. Pyke,” French explained.</p>

<p>The man denied with what French thought was
over-earnestness. Moreover, he looked acutely
uneasy, even scared. French felt a sudden thrill, but
he merely nodded and said:</p>

<p>“You didn’t see any traces on the moor the next
day?”</p>

<p>“Nothing whatever, sir,” said the man with
evident relief.</p>

<p>“Thank you. That’s all I want. Now, Colonel,
if I could see the others to put the same questions
I should be finished.”</p>

<p>Mrs. Burt and the two outside men were
produced in turn, and each denied having heard or
seen anything unusual. Coombe and Mee, the
chauffeur and gardener, were interested, but
evidently nothing more. But Mrs. Burt reproduced
all the signs of uneasiness which her husband had
exhibited, only in an intensified degree. She was
obviously terrified when French questioned her, and
her relief when her ordeal was over was
unmistakable.</p>

<p>But French apparently saw nothing amiss and
when the quartet had gone he thanked Colonel
Domlio for his assistance and apologised for the
trouble he had given. And in the colonel’s manner
he noticed the same repressed evidences of relief.
That something had taken place that night of which
the master of the house and the two domestics were
aware, French was positive.</p>

<p>He left the house and regained the clump of
brushwood in which he had hidden the bicycle. But
he did not withdraw the machine. Instead, after
a quick glance round he crept in beside it, pulling the
bushes over him to make sure that he was invisible
from the road. From his hiding-place he could see
the entrance to “Torview,” as the colonel had
named his house.</p>

<p>He was waiting on a pure chance, but after an
hour he found that his luck was in. He heard the
sounds of an engine being started up, and presently
saw a small green car turn out of the drive and
disappear in the direction of Ashburton. In the car
was Colonel Domlio.</p>

<p>French allowed another twenty minutes to pass,
then crawling out of the brushwood, he returned to
the house. Burt again opened the door.</p>

<p>“I’m sorry to trouble you again, Mr. Burt,” he
apologised, with his pleasant smile, “but I forgot to
ask Colonel Domlio a question. Could I see him
again just for a moment?”</p>

<p>“Colonel Domlio went out about half an hour
ago, sir.”</p>

<p>“Ah, that’s very unfortunate.” French paused
and looked disappointed, then brightened up.
“Perhaps you could give me the information, if you
would be so kind? I don’t want to have to come
back another day.”</p>

<p>Burt was obviously disconcerted. But he tried to
hide his feelings and reluctantly invited the caller
into the study.</p>

<p>“Yes, sir?” he said.</p>

<p>French instantly became official and very stern.
He swung round, frowning at the other and staring
him full in the face. Then he said, harshly: “It
is you I want to see, Burt. You lied to me this
afternoon. I have come back to hear the truth.”</p>

<p>The man started and fell back a pace, while
dismay and something like terror showed on his
features.</p>

<p>“I don’t understand,” he stammered. “What do
you mean?”</p>

<p>“It’s no use, Burt. You’ve given yourself away.
You saw or heard something that night. What was
it?”</p>

<p>“You’re mistaken, sir,” he declared, with a look
of relief. “I neither saw nor heard anything. I
swear it.” And then gaining confidence: “I don’t
know what right you have to come here and tell me
I was lying. I’m sure——”</p>

<p>“Cut it out,” French said, sharply. “Look here,
Burt, do you want to be arrested on a charge of
conspiracy to murder?”</p>

<p>Burt’s jaw dropped, but French did not give him
time to reply.</p>

<p>“Because if you don’t you’ll tell what you know.
Mr. Pyke was murdered that night, and perhaps
Mr. Berlyn as well. They were not lost on the moor
and it is believed they came here. If you keep back
any information that might lead to the arrest of
the murderer, it’s conspiracy—accessory after the
fact. Ten years penal for that, Burt! Come along,
now. Make up your mind whether you’re going to
tell or face the judge.”</p>

<p>Burt’s face had grown pale, but he stuck to it
that he had neither seen nor heard anything. French
cut his protestations short.</p>

<p>“Fetch your wife,” he ordered.</p>

<p>The man’s manner as he heard these words,
coupled with Mrs. Burt’s evident fear when
originally questioned, assured French that this time he
was on the right track. With evident unwillingness
the woman appeared.</p>

<p>“Now, Mrs. Burt, I want to know what you heard
or saw on the night of the tragedy. There is no
use in telling me there was nothing. Now out with
it!” And in terse language he explained what
accessory after the fact meant, and its penalty.</p>

<p>Mrs. Burt was of less stern stuff than her
husband. Under French’s examination she was soon in
tears and presently, disjointed and in fragments,
her story came out.</p>

<p>It appeared that on the night of the tragedy she
slept badly, owing to some small indisposition.
Shortly after one she woke in considerable pain. She
endured it for a time, then thinking that perhaps a
hot drink would help her, she decided to go down to
the kitchen and heat some milk. She got up quietly
so as not to awake her husband, and left the
bedroom. A quarter-moon dimly lit up the staircase
and hall, so she carried no light. Just as she reached
the head of the lower flight of stairs she heard the
front door open. Startled, she drew back into the
shadows, peering down at the same time into the
hall. She was relieved to see that it was Colonel
Domlio. He wore a hat and overcoat, and taking
these off, he moved very quietly across the hall.
Then she heard the click of the cloakroom door and
slight sounds of movement as he approached the
stairs. She slipped back into the passage which led
to the servants’ quarters and in a few seconds the
colonel’s bedroom door closed softly. This was a
few minutes past two o’clock.</p>

<p>It was unusual for the colonel to be out at night
and her woman’s curiosity led her to examine the
hat and coat. They were soaking wet. Rain was
falling, but only very slightly, and she realised,
therefore, that he must have been out for a
considerable time.</p>

<p>She thought no more of the incident, and having
had her hot milk, returned to bed. But she had not
slept, and soon Sergeant Daw appeared with his
story of the missing men. This excited but did not
perturb her, but when, a few minutes later, she
heard Colonel Domlio assuring the sergeant that he
had spent the whole evening in his study until going
up to bed, she felt that something was wrong. But
it was not until the next day, when she had learnt
the full details of what had happened and had talked
the matter over with her husband, that any possible
sinister significance of her master’s action occurred
to her. Burt, however, had pointed out that it was
not their business and that their obvious policy was
silence.</p>

<p>Mrs. Burt did not state that she had coupled the
colonel’s nocturnal excursion with the tragedy, but
French could sense that this was in both her and her
husband’s minds. He wondered what motive they
could have suspected and further questions showed
that it was connected with the colonel’s intimacy
with Mrs. Berlyn. According to Mrs. Burt this had
been more serious than he had imagined. Mrs.
Berlyn had spent several afternoons and an
occasional evening with the colonel in his study and they
were known to have had many excursions together
on the moor. Since the tragedy, moreover, both the
Burts noticed a change in their master. He had
developed fits of abstraction and brooding and acted
as if he had a weight on his mind.</p>

<p>Believing he had got all he could from the couple,
French warned them to keep his visit to themselves
and immensely comforted Mrs. Burt by assuring her
that she had told him little that he had not known
before. Then saying he wished to have another
word with the two outside men, he left the house
and walked round the outbuildings.</p>

<p>At the back of the main house was a large walled
yard with an old-fashioned stone-built well in the
center and farm buildings along one side. Wheel
tracks leading into one of these indicated that it
was the garage, and there, polishing up some spare
parts, was Coombe.</p>

<p>French repeated his explanation about having
forgotten to ask Colonel Domlio a question, then, after
chatting for some moments, he returned to the night
of the tragedy. Putting up a bluff, he asked at
what hours the colonel had taken out and brought
back the car.</p>

<p>Coombe was considerably taken aback by the
question and said at once that he knew nothing about
it.</p>

<p>“But,” said French, in apparent surprise, “you
must have known that the car was out?”</p>

<p>To his delight, the man did not deny it. Oh yes,
he knew that, but he had not heard it pass and he
didn’t know when it had left or returned.</p>

<p>“Then how did you know it had been out? Did
Colonel Domlio tell you?”</p>

<p>“No, he didn’t say naught about it. I knew by
the mud on the car and the petrol that had been
used.”</p>

<p>“Pretty smart of you, that,” French said,
admiringly. “So there was mud on her? Was she
clean the night before?”</p>

<p>“No. He had her out in the afternoon and got
her a bit dirty. But he said it was late and for me
not to bother with her till the next day, and so I
let her alone.”</p>

<p>“Naturally. And was much petrol gone?”</p>

<p>“ ’Bout two gallons.”</p>

<p>“Two gallons,” French repeated, musingly.
“That would run her about forty miles, I suppose?”</p>

<p>“Easy that and more.”</p>

<p>“You live at the lodge gate, don’t you, Coombe?”</p>

<p>“That’s right.”</p>

<p>“Then the car must have passed you twice in the
night. Surely you would have heard it?”</p>

<p>“I might not. Anyhow, I wouldn’t if she went
out the back way.”</p>

<p>All this was excessively satisfactory to French.
The theory he had formed postulated that Domlio
had secretly run his car to the works on the night
of the tragedy. And now it looked as if he had done
so. At least, he had taken the car out. And not
only had he denied it, but he had arranged that the
machine should be left dirty so that the fresh mud
it might gather should not show. Furthermore, the
hour at which he returned exactly worked in.</p>

<p>For a moment French was puzzled about the
quantity of petrol which had been used. Forty
miles or more was enough for two trips to the
works. Then he saw that to carry out the plan
Domlio must have driven there twice. First he
must have been at the works about ten to drug
Gurney’s tea. Then he must have gone in about
midnight with Berlyn and Pyke. So this also fitted
in.</p>

<p>French, always thorough, interviewed Mee. But
he was not disappointed when he found the man
could tell him nothing. Keenly delighted with his
progress, he renewed his directions to keep his visit
secret, and took his leave.</p>



<h2>Chapter Fourteen: French Turns Fisherman</h2>

<p>On reaching the road, French returned to his
clump of brushwood and once more concealed
himself. He was anxious to intercept Domlio before he
reached home and received the account of the
afternoon’s happenings. A question as to the man’s
nocturnal activities would be more effective were it
unexpected.</p>

<p>Though French enjoyed moorland scenery, he had
more than enough of this particular view as he sat
waiting for the colonel’s appearance. Every time
he heard a car he got up hopefully, only to turn
back in disappointment. Again and again he
congratulated himself that he had found a position
which commanded the entrances of both front and
back drives, or he would have supposed that his
quarry had eluded him. For two hours he waited
and then at last the green car hove in sight. He
stepped forward with upraised arm.</p>

<p>“Sorry to stop you, Colonel,” he said, pleasantly,
“but I have had some further information since I
saw you and I wish to put another question. Will
you tell me, please, where exactly you took your
car on the night of the tragedy?”</p>

<p>The colonel was evidently taken aback, though
not so much as French had hoped.</p>

<p>“I thought I had explained that I wasn’t out on
that night,” he answered, with only a very slight
pause.</p>

<p>“To be candid,” French rejoined, “that’s why I
am so anxious to have an answer to my question.
If there was nothing in the trip which would
interest me, why should you try to hide it?”</p>

<p>“How do you know I was out?”</p>

<p>“You may take it from me, sir, that I am sure
of my ground. But if you don’t care to answer my
question I shall not press it. In fact, I must warn
you that any answers you give me may be used
against you in evidence.”</p>

<p>In spite of evident efforts the colonel looked
uneasy.</p>

<p>“What?” he exclaimed, squaring his shoulders.
“Does this mean that you really suppose I am guilty
of the murder of Mr. Pyke?”</p>

<p>“It means this, Colonel Domlio. You’ve been
acting in a suspicious way and I want an explanation.
I’m not making any charges, simply, I’ve got to
know. Whether you tell me now or not is a matter
for yourself.”</p>

<p>“If I don’t tell you, does it mean that you will
arrest me?”</p>

<p>“I don’t say so, but it may come to that.”</p>

<p>The colonel gave a mirthless laugh.</p>

<p>“Then I’m afraid I have no alternative. There
is no mystery whatever about my taking out the car
that night and I have no objection to telling you
the whole thing.”</p>

<p>“But you denied that you had done so.”</p>

<p>“I did, and there I admit having made a foolish
blunder. But my motive in doing so must be
obvious.”</p>

<p>“I’m afraid not so obvious as you seem to think.
However, having regard to my warning, if you
care to answer my question I shall be pleased to
hear your statement.”</p>

<p>“I’ll certainly answer it. Possibly you know that
I am interested in entomology? I think I told you
I was writing a book about the insects of the moor?</p>

<p>“In order to get material for my book I make
expeditions all over the moor. I made one on that
day of the tragedy. I went to a little valley not
far from Chagford where there are numbers of a
certain kind of butterfly of which I wanted some
specimens for microscopic purposes. While
chasing one of these I had the misfortune to get a
severe fall. My foot went into a rabbit hole and I
crashed, as the airmen say. I was winded and it
was some time before I could get up, but I was
thankful not to have broken my leg, as I might
easily have done. That put me off running for one
day and I crawled back to the car and drove home.</p>

<p>“I was feeling a bit shaken and I went up to bed
early that night, just before eleven. When I began
to undress I found I had lost a miniature which I
always carry and which I value extremely, not so
much because of its intrinsic worth, but for
sentimental reasons. Here it is.”</p>

<p>He took a small gold object from his pocket and
passed it across. It was of a charming design,
exquisitely chased and set with diamonds, and French
saw at once that it was of considerable value. It
contained the portrait of a woman—a beautiful
haunting face, clear cut as a cameo. The whole
thing was a wonderful example of artistic skill.</p>

<p>“My late wife,” Colonel Domlio explained as he
replaced it in his pocket. “As you can imagine, I
was distressed by the loss. I could only account for
it by supposing it had dropped out of my pocket
when I fell. I thought over it for some time and
then I decided to go out to the place then and there
and have a look for it, lest some shepherd or
labourer might find it in the early morning. I did so.
I took out the car and a strong electric torch and
went back, and on searching the place where I fell
I found it almost immediately. I came straight
back, arriving shortly after two. Does that satisfy
you?”</p>

<p>“No,” said French. “Not until you explain why
you denied having been out when Sergeant Daw
asked you.”</p>

<p>“That, as I have said, was a mistake. But you
can surely understand my motive. When I heard
the sergeant’s story I recognised at once that my
having taken out the car was a very unfortunate
thing for me. I felt sure that foul play would sooner
or later be suggested and I thought I should be
suspected. I couldn’t prove where I had been and I
was afraid I should not be believed when I
explained.”</p>

<p>“I’m afraid that is not very clear. Why did you
imagine that foul play would be suspected?”</p>

<p>Domlio hesitated.</p>

<p>“I suppose,” he said at last, “things have gone so
far there is no use in trying to keep anything back.
I knew that there was bad blood between Berlyn
and Pyke. The sergeant’s news at once suggested
to me that the trouble might have come to a head.
I hoped not, of course, but the idea occurred to me.”</p>

<p>“Even yet I don’t understand. What was the
cause of the bad blood between those two and how
did you come to know of it?”</p>

<p>“Surely,” Domlio protested, “it is not necessary
to go into that? I am only accounting for my own
actions.”</p>

<p>“It is necessary in order to account for your own
actions.”</p>

<p>Domlio squared his shoulders.</p>

<p>“I don’t think I should tell you, only that,
unfortunately, it is pretty well common property. I
hate dragging in a lady’s name, though you have
already done it, but the truth is that they had had
a misunderstanding about Mrs. Berlyn.”</p>

<p>“About Mrs. Berlyn?”</p>

<p>“Yes. She and Pyke saw rather too much of
each other. I don’t for a moment believe there was
the slightest cause for jealousy, but Berlyn was a
bit exacting and he probably made a mountain out
of a molehill. I knew Mrs. Berlyn pretty well
myself, and I am certain that Berlyn had no real
cause for complaint.”</p>

<p>“You haven’t explained how you came to know
of the affair?”</p>

<p>“It was common property. I don’t think I can
tell you where I first heard of it.”</p>

<p>French considered for a moment.</p>

<p>“There is another thing, Colonel Domlio. You
said that when you heard the sergeant’s story you
suspected the trouble between the two men had
come to a head?”</p>

<p>“Might have come to a head. Yes.”</p>

<p>“Suppose it had. Why, then, did you fear that
the sergeant might have suspected you?”</p>

<p>Again Domlio hesitated.</p>

<p>“That is a nasty question, Inspector,” he said at
last, “but from what you asked me in my study you
might guess the answer. As a matter of fact, I
had myself seen a good deal of Mrs. Berlyn for
some time previously. About this there was
nothing in the slightest degree compromising. All
through we were merely friends. Not only that,
but Berlyn knew of our meetings and excursions.
When he could he shared them, and he had not
the slightest objection to our intimacy. But Daw
wouldn’t know that. For all I could tell, the
excellent scandalmongers of the district had coupled
Mrs. Berlyn’s name with mine. Berlyn was dead
and gone and he could not state his views. My
word would not be believed, nor Mrs. Berlyn’s,
neither, if she were dragged into it. I thought, at
all events, I had better keep secret a mysterious
excursion which might easily be misunderstood.”</p>

<p>Not very convincing, French thought, as he
rapidly considered what the colonel had told him.
However, it <em>might</em> be true. At all events, he had
no evidence to justify an arrest. He therefore
pretended that he fully accepted the statement, and,
wishing the colonel a cheery good evening, stood
aside to let the car pass.</p>

<p>As he cycled slowly into Ashburton he kept
turning over in his mind the question of whether there
was any way in which he could test the truth of
Colonel Domlio’s statement. Frankly, he did not
believe the story. But unbelief was no use to him.
He must prove it true or false.</p>

<p>All the evening he puzzled over the problem, then
at last he saw that there was a line of research
which, though it might not solve the point in
question, yet bade fair to be of value to the enquiry as
a whole.</p>

<p>Once again it concerned a time-table—this time
for Domlio’s presumed movements. Assume that
Berlyn and Pyke reached the point at which the car
was abandoned about 11.30. To convince Pyke of
the <i lang="la">bona fides</i> of the breakdown, Berlyn would have
to spend some time over the engine, say fifteen
minutes. In the dark they could scarcely have
reached Torview in less than another fifteen; say
that by the time Domlio had admitted them it was
close on midnight. Some time would then be
consumed in explaining the situation and in getting out
the car; in fact, the party could scarcely have left
Torview before 12.10. Running to the works would
have occupied the most of another half hour; say
arrive 12.40. Domlio reached his home about 2.10,
which, allowing half an hour for the return journey,
left an hour unaccounted for. In this hour Pyke’s
murder must have been committed, the duplicator
taken to pieces and the parts left in the store, fresh
tea put into Gurney’s flask, Pyke’s clothes and the
small parts of the duplicator got rid of, and the
magneto on Berlyn’s car changed.</p>

<p>French wondered if all these things could have
been done in the time. At last, after working out
a detailed time-table, he came to the conclusion that
they could, on one condition: that the clothes and
duplicator parts were got rid of on the way to
Torview; that is, if no time were lost in making a
detour.</p>

<p>Where, then, could this have been done?</p>

<p>French took his map and considered the route.
The Dart River was crossed three times and a part
of the way lay through woods. But he believed
that too many tourists strayed from the road for
these to be safe hiding-places, though he realised
that they might have to be searched later.</p>

<p>There remained two places, either of which he
thought more promising—the works and Domlio’s
grounds.</p>

<p>The fact that elaborate arrangements had been
made to get Pyke’s body away from the works
indicated that the disposal of it there was considered
impossible. Nevertheless, French spent the next
day, which was Sunday, prowling about the
buildings, though without result.</p>

<p>This left Domlio’s little estate, and early the
following morning French borrowed the sergeant’s
bicycle and rode out to his former hiding-place
outside the gates. History repeated itself, for after
waiting for nearly two hours he saw Domlio pass
out towards Ashburton.</p>

<p>As the car had not been heard by either Coombe
or Mee on the night of the tragedy, it followed that
it had almost certainly entered by the back drive.
French now walked up this lane to the yard,
looking for hiding-places. But there were none.</p>

<p>He did not see any of the servants about and he
stood in the yard, pondering over his problem.
Then his glance fell on the old well, and it instantly
occurred to him that here was the very kind of
place he was seeking. There was an old wheel pump
beside it, rusty and dilapidated, working a rod to
the plunger below. He imagined the well was not
used, for on his last visit he had noticed a
well-oiled force pump a hundred yards away at the
kitchen door.</p>

<p>The well was surrounded by a masonry wall
about three feet high, coped with roughly dressed
stones. On the coping was a flat wooden grating,
old and decaying. Ivy covered about half of the
wall and grating.</p>

<p>French crossed the yard and, leaning over the
wall, glanced down. The sides were black with age
and he could distinguish no details of the walls,
but there was a tiny reflection from the water far
below. Then suddenly he noticed a thing which
once again set him off into a ferment of delight.</p>

<p>The cross-bars of the grating were secured by
mortar into niches cut in the stone. All of these
bore signs of recent movement.</p>

<p>Satisfied that he had at last solved his problem,
French quietly left the yard and, recovering his
bicycle, rode back to the police station at Ashburton.</p>

<p>“I want your help, Sergeant,” he said as Daw
came forward. “Can you get some things together
and come out with me to Colonel Domlio’s
to-night?”</p>

<p>“Of course, Mr. French.”</p>

<p>“Good. Then I want a strong fishing-line and
some hooks and some twenty-five or thirty yards
of strong cord. I should like also a candle-burning
lantern and, of course, your electric torch. I want
to try an experiment.”</p>

<p>“I’ll have all those ready.”</p>

<p>“I want to be there when there’s no one about,
so, as the Colonel sits up very late, I think we’ll
say three o’clock. That means we ought to leave
here about one-fifteen. Can you borrow a second
bicycle?”</p>

<p>The sergeant looked completely mystified by these
instructions, but he answered, “Certainly,” without
asking any questions. It was agreed that they should
meet in the evening at his house, sitting up there
until it was time to start.</p>

<p>Having explained at the hotel that he had to go
to Plymouth and would be away all night, French
started out for a tramp on the moor. About eleven
he turned up at Daw’s cottage, and there the two
men spent the next couple of hours smoking and
chatting.</p>

<p>Shortly before three they reached Torview. They
hid their bicycles in the brushwood and walked softly
up the back drive to the yard. The night was fine
and calm, but the sky was overcast and it was very
dark. Not a sound broke the stillness.</p>

<p>Silently they reached the well, and French, with
his electric torch, examined the wooden cover.</p>

<p>“I think if we lift together we can get it up,” he
whispered. “Try at this side and use the ivy as a
hinge.”</p>

<p>They raised it easily and French propped it with
a billet of wood.</p>

<p>“Now, Sergeant, the fishing line.”</p>

<p>At the sergeant’s cottage they had tied on a bunch
of hooks and a weight. French now let these down,
having passed the line through one of the holes in
the grating to ensure its swinging free from the
walls. Gradually he paid out the cord until a faint
plop announced that the water had been reached.
He continued lowering as long as the cord would
run out; then he began jerking it slowly up and
down.</p>

<p>“Swing it from side to side, Sergeant, while I
keep jerking it. If there’s anything there we should
get it.”</p>

<p>For twenty minutes they worked, and then, just
as French was coming to the conclusion that a
daylight descent into the well would be necessary, the
hooks caught. Something of fair weight was on
the line.</p>

<p>“Let it stay till it stops swinging, or else we
shall lose the hooks in the wall, Mr. French,” the
sergeant advised, now as keenly interested as was
French himself.</p>

<p>“Right, Sergeant. The water will soon steady
it.”</p>

<p>After a few seconds, French began to pull slowly
up, the drops from the attached object echoing
loudly up the long funnel. And then came into the
circle of the sergeant’s torch a man’s coat.</p>

<p>It was black and sodden and shapeless from the
water, and slimy to the touch. They lifted it round
the well so that the wall should be between them
and the house and examined it with their electric
torches.</p>

<p>In the breast pocket was a letter case containing
papers, but it was impossible to read anything they
bore. A pipe, a tobacco pouch, a box of matches,
and a handkerchief were in the other pockets.</p>

<p>Fortunately for French, there was a tailor’s tab
sewn into the lining of the breast pocket and he was
able to make out part of the legend: “R. Shrubsole &amp;
Co., Newton Abbot.” Beneath was a smudge which
had evidently been the owner’s name, but this was
undecipherable.</p>

<p>“We’ll get it from the tailor,” French said.
“Let’s try the hooks again.”</p>

<p>Once again they lowered their line, but this time
without luck.</p>

<p>“No good,” French declared at last. “We’ll
have to pump it out. You might get the depth, and
then close up and leave it as we found it. We’d
better bring a portable pump, for I don’t suppose
that old thing will work.”</p>

<p>They replaced the grating and the billet of wood,
and stealing silently out of the yard, rode back to
Ashburton.</p>

<p>With the coat wrapped in paper and packed in
his suitcase, French took an early bus to Newton
Abbot. There he soon found Messrs. Shrubsole’s
establishment and asked for the proprietor.</p>

<p>“It’s not easy to say whose it was,” Mr.
Shrubsole declared when he had examined the coat. “You
see, these labels of ours are printed—that is, our
name and address. But the customer’s name is
written and it would not last in the same way. I’m
afraid I cannot read it.”</p>

<p>“If it had been possible to read it, I should not
have come to you, Mr. Shrubsole. I want you to
get at it from the cloth and size and probable age
and things of that kind. You can surely find out
all those things by examination.”</p>

<p>This appeared to be a new idea to Mr. Shrubsole.
He admitted that something of the kind might be
done, and calling an assistant, fell to scrutinising the
garment.</p>

<p>“It’s that brown tweed with the purple line that
we sold so much of last year,” the assistant declared.
He produced a roll of cloth. “See, if we lift the
lining here it shows clear enough.”</p>

<p>“That’s right,” his employer admitted. “Now
can we get the measurements?”</p>

<p>“Not so easy,” said the assistant. “The thing
will be all warped and shrunk from the water.”</p>

<p>“Try,” French urged, with his pleasant smile.</p>

<p>An orgy of measuring followed, with a
subsequent recourse to the books and much low-voiced
conversation. Finally Mr. Shrubsole announced the
result.</p>

<p>“It’s not possible to say for sure, Mr. French.
You see, the coat is shrunk out of all knowing. But
we think it might belong to one of four men.”</p>

<p>“I see your difficulty, Mr. Shrubsole, but if you
tell me the four it may help me.”</p>

<p>“I hope so. We sold suits of about this size to
Mr. Albert Cunningham of Twenty-seven, Acacia
Street, Newton Abbot; Mr. John Booth of
Lyndhurst, Teignmouth; Mr. Stanley Pyke, of East
Street, Ashburton; and Mr. George Hepworth, of
Linda Lodge, Newton Abbot. Any of those any
good to you?” Mr. Shrubsole’s expression
suddenly changed. “By Jove! You’re not the
gentleman that’s been making these discoveries about Mr.
Berlyn and Mr. Pyke? We’ve heard some report
that some Scotland Yard man was down and had
found out that that tragedy was not all it was
supposed to be. That it, sir?”</p>

<p>“That’s it,” French replied, feeling that it was
impossible to keep his business private. “But I
don’t want it talked about. Now you see why I
should like to be sure whether that was or was not
Mr. Pyke’s coat.”</p>

<p>But in spite of the tailor’s manifest interest, he
declared that the point could not be established. He
was fairly sure that it belonged to one of the four,
but more than that he could not say.</p>

<p>But French had no doubt whatever, and, well
pleased with his progress, he left the shop and took
the first bus back to Ashburton.</p>



<h2>Chapter Fifteen: Blackmail</h2>

<p>“Have you been able to get the pump, Sergeant?”
asked French as he reached the police station that
afternoon.</p>

<p>“I’ve got the loan of one, Mr. French, or at least
I’ll get it first thing to-morrow. From a quarry
close by. It’s a rotary hand-pump, and Mr. Glenn,
the manager, tells me that it will throw far faster
than anything we’ll want.”</p>

<p>“We shall have to fix it down in the well?”</p>

<p>“Yes, the well’s forty-two feet deep. It’s thirty
to the water and there’s twelve feet of water. But
there’ll be no trouble about that. The beams that
carry the old pump will take it, too.”</p>

<p>“You think they’re strong enough?”</p>

<p>“We’ll just have to try them.”</p>

<p>“What about ladders?”</p>

<p>“I’ve got a fifty-foot length of rope ladder from
the same quarry.”</p>

<p>“Good. What time can we start to-morrow?”</p>

<p>“I shall have the pump by half past eight.”</p>

<p>“Then we should be at the colonel’s shortly after
nine.”</p>

<p>This time French thought it would be wise to have
Domlio present at their experiment. He therefore
rang him up and made an appointment for
nine-thirty.</p>

<p>Early next morning a heavily loaded car left
Ashburton. In addition to the driver it contained
French, Daw, and two constables in plain clothes,
as well as a low, squat pump with detachable handle,
an immense coil of armoured hose, another huge coil
of rope ladder, and several tools and small parts.</p>

<p>“Another rush to Klondyke,” said French, at
which priceless pearl of humour Daw smiled and the
plain clothes men guffawed heavily.</p>

<p>“I should have thought that tailor could have
fixed up the ownership of the coat,” Daw remarked,
presently. “Shouldn’t you, sir?”</p>

<p>“Of course, Sergeant. But we shall get it, all
right, even if we have to do all the work ourselves.
I thought it wasn’t worth troubling about. It’s
pretty certain the coat is not the only thing that was
thrown into the well and we shall get our
identification from something else.”</p>

<p>The car was run into the yard, unloaded, and
dismissed, while French went to the hall door and
asked for Colonel Domlio.</p>

<p>“Sorry to trouble you at this hour, Colonel, but
I want you to be present at a small experiment I am
carrying out.” He watched the other keenly as he
spoke. “Will you please come out into the yard,
where I have left Sergeant Daw and some men?”</p>

<p>Surprise showed on the colonel’s face, but not, so
far as French could see, apprehension.</p>

<p>“This is very interesting, Inspector. I’m glad
I’m at least being informed of what is taking place
on my own ground. I shall certainly see what you
are doing.”</p>

<p>As they turned the corner and the purpose of the
visit became apparent to Domlio, his surprise seemed
to deepen, but still there was no appearance of
uneasiness. The police had lifted the cover of the well
and were getting the pump rigged. Coombe and
Mee had joined the others and stood speechlessly
regarding the preparations.</p>

<p>“Ah, an invasion? I presume, Inspector, you
have adequate authority for these somewhat unusual
proceedings?”</p>

<p>“I think you’ll find that’s all right, sir. With
your permission we’re going to pump out the well.”</p>

<p>“The removal of the well cover and the pump
rather suggested something of the kind, but for the
moment I can’t quite recall the permission.”</p>

<p>“I feel sure that under the circumstance you
won’t withhold it. Better lower that lantern with
the candle, Sergeant, before you send a man down.
We want to be sure the air is good.”</p>

<p>“If it’s not an impertinence,” Domlio remarked,
with ironic politeness, “I should be interested to
know why you are not using the existing pump.”</p>

<p>“I didn’t think it was in working order. Is the
well used?”</p>

<p>“An explanation, complete, no doubt, but scarcely
satisfying. It did not occur to you to try it?”</p>

<p>“No, sir. Too noisy. But what about the well?”</p>

<p>“Ah yes, the well. The well is used—in summer.
We have a gravity supply from the hill behind the
house, but it fails in summer; hence pumping from
the well.”</p>

<p>This statement was very satisfactory to French.
It cleared up a point which had been worrying him.
If it were possible to get rid of the clothes by
throwing them down the well, why had Pyke’s body not
been disposed of in the same way? But now this
was explained. The condition of the water in the
following summer would have led to investigation.</p>

<p>“Try the fixed pump, Sergeant. It may save us
rigging the other.”</p>

<p>But a test showed that the valve leathers were
dry and not holding, and they went on with their
original program.</p>

<p>French had been puzzled by the colonel’s attitude.
If beneath his cynical manner he were consumed by
the anxiety which, were he guilty, he could scarcely
help feeling, he was concealing it in a way that was
little short of marvellous. However, the preparations
would take time and it was impossible that if
the man knew what would be found he could hide
all signs of tension.</p>

<p>The candle, lowered to the surface of the water,
burned clearly, showing that the air was fresh. The
rope ladder was then made fast to the stonework
and Sergeant Daw climbed down. Presently he
returned to say that the beams on which the old pump
rested were sound. The new pump was therefore
lowered and one of the constables sent down to
begin work.</p>

<p>Getting rid of the water turned out a bigger job
than French had anticipated. Slowly the level
dropped. At intervals the men spelled each other,
French and Daw taking their turns. By lunch-time
the water had gone down seven feet, though
during the meal it rose six inches. After that they
worked with renewed energy to get the remaining
five feet six inches out before dusk.</p>

<p>“You have a second well, have you not, Colonel?”
French enquired. “I noticed a pump near the
kitchen door.”</p>

<p>“Yes. We use it for drinking purposes. This is
only good enough for washing the car and so on.”</p>

<p>On more than one occasion Domlio had protested
against what he called the waste of his time in
watching the work. But French insisted on his
remaining till the search was complete.</p>

<p>About four o’clock the water was so far lowered
as to allow an investigation of the bottom, and the
sergeant, squeezing past the man at the pump, went
down with his electric torch. French, leaning over
the wall, anxiously watched the flickering light. Then
came the sergeant’s voice: “There’s a waistcoat and
trousers and shoes here, Mr. French.”</p>

<p>“That all?” called French.</p>

<p>“That’s all that I see. I’ve got everything of any
size, anyhow.”</p>

<p>“Well, tie them to the rope and we’ll pull them
up.”</p>

<p>How Domlio would comport himself when he saw
the clothes was now the important matter. French
watched him keenly as the dripping bundle appeared
and was carried to a bench in the garage.</p>

<p>Though the day’s work had prepared the man
for some <i lang="fr">dénoûment</i>, he certainly appeared to
French to be genuinely amazed when the nature of
the find was revealed.</p>

<p>“Good Heavens! Inspector! What does this
mean?” he cried, squaring his shoulders. “Whose
are these and how did you know they were there?”</p>

<p>French turned to the plain-clothes men. “Just
wait outside the door, will you,” he said, then went
on gravely to the other: “That is what I have to ask
you, Colonel Domlio.”</p>

<p>“Me?” The man’s sardonic calm was at last
broken. “I know nothing about them. The thing
is an absolute surprise to me. I swear it.” His
face paled and he looked anxious and worried.</p>

<p>“There is something I should tell you,” French
continued. “On considering this Berlyn-Pyke case I
formed a theory. I don’t say it is correct, but I
formed it from the facts I had learnt. According to
that theory you took out your car on the night of the
tragedy, drove into Ashburton, picked up Mr.
Pyke’s coat, waistcoat, trousers, shoes, and certain
other things, brought them here and threw them
into the well. A moment, please.” He raised his
hand as Domlio would have spoken. “Rightly or
wrongly, that was my theory. But there was a
difficulty. You had stated to the sergeant that you
had not gone out that night. I came here and
found that that statement was not true. You had
been out. Then I made further enquiries and learnt
that you had taken out your car. You explained
that, but I regret to say that I was unable to accept
your explanation. I thought, however, that the
presence or absence of these objects in the well
would settle the matter. I looked at the well and
saw that the cover had recently been moved. Two
nights ago Sergeant Daw and I came out, and after
trying with a line and fish-hooks, we drew up a
coat—Pyke’s coat. Now, Colonel, if you wish to make
a statement I will give it every consideration, but it
is my duty again to warn you that anything you say
may be used in evidence against you.”</p>

<p>“What? Are you charging me with a crime?”</p>

<p>“Unless you can satisfy me of your innocence you
will be charged with complicity in the murder of
Stanley Pyke.”</p>

<p>The Colonel drew a deep breath.</p>

<p>“But, good Heavens! How can I satisfy you? I
don’t even know what you have against me, except
this extraordinary business which I can make neither
head nor tail of. You must know more about it
than you have said. Tell me the rest.”</p>

<p>“You tell me this: Was your statement about the
loss of the locket on that night true?”</p>

<p>Colonel Domlio did not reply. He seemed to
be weighing some problem of overwhelming
difficulty. French waited patiently, wondering how far
his bluff would carry. At last the colonel spoke.</p>

<p>“I have lied to the sergeant and to you,
Inspector, with what I now believe was a mistaken motive.
I have been turning over the matter in my mind and
I see that I have no alternative but to tell you
the truth now or to suffer arrest. Possibly things
have gone so far that this cannot be avoided. At all
events, I will tell you everything.”</p>

<p>“You are not forgetting my warning, Colonel
Domlio?”</p>

<p>“I am not forgetting it. If I am acting foolishly
it is my own lookout. I tried to put you off,
Inspector, to save bringing Mrs. Berlyn’s name further
into the matter, because, though there was nothing
against her character, I was sure you would have
bothered her with annoying questions. But, though
I thought it right to lie with this object, I don’t feel
like risking prison for it.”</p>

<p>“I follow you,” said French.</p>

<p>“You will remember then what I told you about
Mrs. Berlyn, that she had been seeing a good deal
first of Pyke and then of myself. I’m sorry to have
to drag this in again, but otherwise you wouldn’t
understand the situation.</p>

<p>“About—let me see—four months before the
tragedy Mrs. Berlyn came out here one afternoon.
She said that she had been in London to a lecture
on entomology and that she had been so much
interested that she had read one or two books on the
subject. She said that she knew I was doing some
research in it and she wondered whether I would let
her come and help me and so learn more. I naturally
told her I should be delighted, and she began to
come out here quite often. On different occasions
she has accompanied me on the moor while I was
searching for specimens, and she has spent several
afternoons with me in my library mounting butterflies
and learning to use the microscope. This went
on until the day of the tragedy.”</p>

<p>Colonel Domlio paused, squared his shoulders,
and continued:</p>

<p>“On that morning I had received by post a letter
addressed in a strange hand and marked ‘Personal.’
It was signed ‘X.Y.Z.’ and said that the writer
happened to be walking about four <small>P.M.</small> on the previous
Tuesday in the Upper Merton glen at a certain
point which he described; that he had seen me with
Mrs. Berlyn in my arms; that, having a camera, he
had at once taken two photographs, one of which
had come out; and that if I cared to have the
negative he would sell it for fifty pounds. If I wished
to negotiate I was to meet him on the Chagford–Gidleigh
road at the gate of Dobson’s Spinney at
one o’clock that night. Should I not turn up, the
writer would understand that I was not interested
and would take his picture to Mrs. Berlyn, who,
he thought, would prefer to deal rather than have
it handed to Mr. Berlyn.</p>

<p>“At first I could not think what was meant; then
I remembered what had taken place. We had been,
Mrs. Berlyn and I, searching for a certain butterfly
at the place and time mentioned. Suddenly she had
cried out that she had seen a specimen and she had
rushed after it past where I was standing. Just as
she reached me she gave a cry and lurched against
me. ‘Oh, my ankle!’ she shouted and clung to me.
She had twisted her foot in a rabbit hole and she
could not put her weight on it. I supported her in
my arms for a few seconds, and it must have been at
this moment that my blackmailer came on the scene.
I laid Mrs. Berlyn down on the grass. She sat quiet
for some minutes, then with my arm was able to
limp to the car. She said her ankle was not sprained,
but only twisted, and that she would be all right in
a few hours. Next day when I rang up to enquire
she said it was still painful but a good deal better.</p>

<p>“At first I was doubtful whether I should act on
the letter; then I thought that if there was a genuine
photograph it would be better for me to deal with
the owner. I therefore went out to the rendezvous
at the time mentioned. But I might have saved
myself the trouble, for no one was there. And from
that day to this I never heard another word about
the affair, nor did I mention it to a soul. Indeed,
the Berlyn-Pyke tragedy put it out of my head, and
the same thing, I suppose, robbed the photograph
of its value.”</p>

<p>“You told me,” said French, “something about
Mrs. Berlyn’s relations with Mr. Pyke and yourself,
saying that I would not understand your story
otherwise. Just what was in your mind in that?”</p>

<p>“Because these relations complicated the whole
situation. Do you not see that? Had everything
been normal I could have treated the thing as a
joke and shown the photograph to Berlyn. As things
were, he would have taken it seriously.”</p>

<p>French felt a little puzzled by this statement. If
the man were lying, it was just the sort of story he
would expect to hear, except for one thing. It was
capable of immediate confirmation. If it were not
true he would soon get it out of Mrs. Berlyn.</p>

<p>“I don’t want to be offensive, Colonel,” he said,
“but by your own admission you have twice lied
about what took place that night. Can you give me
any proof that your present statement is true?”</p>

<p>Domlio squared his shoulders.</p>

<p>“I can’t,” he admitted. “I can show you the
letter and you can ask Mrs. Berlyn, but I don’t know
that either of those would constitute proof.”</p>

<p>“They wouldn’t in themselves, but from either I
might get some point which would. Now I’ll tell
you what we’ll do. We’ll see first whether Sergeant
Daw has made any further discoveries; then you can
show me the letter and we’ll drive out to the place
where Mrs. Berlyn fell.”</p>

<p>“That’s easily done.”</p>

<p>They returned to the well, and there, to French’s
satisfaction, found the missing duplicator parts laid
out on the coping of the wall.</p>

<p>“Excellent, Sergeant. That’s all we want. I take
it you will get the pump away? You needn’t wait
for me. I’m going out with Colonel Domlio.”</p>

<p>While Coombe was bringing round the car the
two men went to the study for the letter. It was just
as the colonel had described, and French could see
no clue to the sender.</p>

<p>They ran out then to the Upper Merton glen and
Domlio pointed out the spot at which the alleged
incident had taken place. French insisted on his
describing the occurrence in the most minute manner.
He wished to form an opinion as to whether the
man was relating what he had seen or inventing the
details as he went along.</p>

<p>After half an hour of close questioning on the
lines of the American third degree, French had to
admit that the affair had either happened as Domlio
had said or that it had been rehearsed with great
care. On no point was he able to trip the colonel
up, and knowing the difficulty of inventing a story
in which every detail is foreseen and accounted for,
he began to think the tale true. At all events, with
the mass of detail he now possessed, a similar
examination of Mrs. Berlyn should set the matter at
rest.</p>

<p>French was in a thoughtful mood as they drove
back to Torview. He was up against the same old
question which had troubled him so many times in
the past. Was his suspect guilty or was he the
victim of a plot?</p>

<p>The evidence against the man was certainly
strong. Seven separate facts pointed to his guilt.
French ran over them in his mind:</p>

<p>1. Domlio had the necessary qualifications for
partnership in the crime. He knew the <i lang="la">dramatis
personæ</i> and he was acquainted with the works. He
could have ordered the duplicator, and arranged for
Berlyn and Pyke to visit Tavistock on the night in
question.</p>

<p>2. He was out in his car on that night at the time
and for the distance required.</p>

<p>3. He had denied this.</p>

<p>4. When cornered he had told a false story of a
search for a lost locket.</p>

<p>5. The clothes of the dead man had been found
in the very place where French imagined Domlio
would have hidden them.</p>

<p>6. There was a quite adequate motive if, as might
well be, Domlio was really attached to Mrs. Berlyn.</p>

<p>7. There was no other person whom French knew
of who could have been Berlyn’s confederate.</p>

<p>Many and many a man had been hanged on far
less evidence than there was here. With this mass
of incriminating facts an arrest was amply justifiable.
Indeed, a conviction was almost assured.</p>

<p>On the other hand, every bit of this evidence was
circumstantial and could be explained on the
assumption of Domlio’s innocence, by supposing him to
be the victim of a conspiracy on the part of the real
murderer.</p>

<p>French wondered if he could make the man reveal
his own outlook on the affair.</p>

<p>“Tell me, Colonel,” he said, “did it not strike
you as a strange thing that Mrs. Berlyn should
stumble at just the point which ensured her falling
into your arms?”</p>

<p>Domlio slackened speed and looked around
aggressively.</p>

<p>“Just what do you mean by that?”</p>

<p>“As a matter of fact,” French answered, sweetly,
“what I mean is, was the accident genuine or
faked?”</p>

<p>The colonel squared his shoulders indignantly.</p>

<p>“I consider that a most unwarrantable remark,”
he said, hotly, “and I shall not answer it. I can only
suppose your abominable calling has warped your
mind and made suspicion a disease with you.”</p>

<p>French glanced at him keenly. The man was
genuinely angry. And if so, it tended in his favour.
Real indignation is difficult to simulate and would
not be called forth by an imaginary insult.</p>

<p>“If you think my remark unwarrantable, I shall
withdraw it,” French said, with his pleasant smile.
“I simply wanted to know whether you yourself
believed in it. I think you do. Well, Colonel, I think
that’s all we can do to-night. I’m sorry to have
given you all this annoyance, but you can see I had
no option.”</p>

<p>They had reached the gate of Torview. Domlio
stopped the car.</p>

<p>“Then you are not going to arrest me?” he asked,
with barely concealed anxiety.</p>

<p>“No. Why should I? You have accounted in a
reasonable way for the suspicious circumstances. So
far as I can see, your explanation is satisfactory. I
can’t expect any more.”</p>

<p>The colonel gave a sigh of relief.</p>

<p>“To be quite candid,” he admitted, “I scarcely
hoped that you would accept it. After what has
occurred, I can’t expect you to believe me, but for
what it’s worth I give you my word of honour that
what I have told you this time is the truth. I may
tell you that I have been afraid of this very
development ever since the tragedy. How are you getting
to Ashburton? Shall I run you in?”</p>

<p>“It would be very good of you.”</p>

<p>It was with considerable uneasiness that French
saw Colonel Domlio drive off from the hotel in
Ashburton. He had backed his judgment that the man
was innocent, but he recognised that he might easily
have made a mistake. At the same time Domlio
could scarcely escape otherwise than by suicide, and
he felt sure that his mind had been so much eased
that he would not attempt anything so drastic. As
soon, however, as the car was out of sight he walked
to the police station and asked Daw to have a watch
kept on the man’s movements.</p>



<h2>Chapter Sixteen: Certainty at Last</h2>

<p>That night as French was writing up his diary
the question he had asked Domlio recurred to him.
“Tell me, Colonel,” he had said, “did it not strike
you as strange that Mrs. Berlyn should stumble
at just the point which ensured her falling into your
arms?” He had asked it to test the colonel’s belief
in the incident. Now it occurred to him that on its
merits it required an answer.</p>

<p>Had the incident stood alone it might well have
passed unquestioned. But it was not alone. Two
other matters must be considered in conjunction with
it.</p>

<p>First there was the coincidence that at the precise
moment a watcher armed with a camera should be
present. What accident should take a photographer
to this secluded glen just when so compromising a
tableau should be staged? Was there here an
element of design?</p>

<p>Secondly, there was the consideration that if
suspicion were to be thrown on Domlio he must be
made to take out his car secretly on the fatal night.
And how better could this be done than by the story
of the photograph? Once again, did this not
suggest design?</p>

<p>If so, something both interesting and startling
followed. Mrs. Berlyn was privy to it. And if she
were privy to it, was she not necessarily implicated
in the murder? Could she even be the accomplice
for whom he, French, had been searching?</p>

<p>There was, of course, her alibi. If she had been
at the party at her house at ten o’clock she could
not have drugged Gurney’s tea. But was she at
her house?</p>

<p>Experience had made French sceptical about
alibis. This one certainly seemed watertight, and
yet was it not just possible that Mrs. Berlyn had
managed to slip away from her guests for the fifteen
or twenty minutes required?</p>

<p>It was evident that the matter must be tested
forthwith, and French decided that, having already
questioned Mr. Fogden, he would interview the Dr.
and Mrs. Lancaster whom Lizzie Johnston had
mentioned as also being members of the party.
They lived on the Buckland road half a mile beyond
the Berlyns’, and next morning French called on
them.</p>

<p>Dr. Lancaster, he had learned from Daw, was a
newcomer to the town, a young LL.D. who had
been forced by a breakdown in health to give up his
career at the bar. He received French at once.</p>

<p>“I want to find out whether any member of the
party could have left the house about ten o’clock
for fifteen or twenty minutes,” French explained.
“Do you think that you or Mrs. Lancaster could
help me out?”</p>

<p>“I can only speak for myself,” Dr. Lancaster
smiled. “I was there all the time, and I’m sure so
was Mrs. Lancaster. But I’ll call her and you can
ask her.”</p>

<p>“A moment, please. Surely you can speak for
more than yourself? Were you not with the
others?”</p>

<p>“With some of them. You see, what happened
was this. When we went in, Mrs. Berlyn said that
she had been disappointed in that three London
friends, who were staying at Torquay and whom she
expected, had just telegraphed to say they couldn’t
come. That made our numbers wrong. She had
intended to have three tables of bridge, but now,
as some of us played billiards, she suggested one
bridge table and snooker for the other five. She
and I and—let me see—Fogden and a Miss Pym,
I think, and one other—I’m blessed if I can
remember who the other was—played snooker. So I
wasn’t with the other four between the time that we
settled down to play and supper.”</p>

<p>“What hour was supper?”</p>

<p>“About half past ten, I think. We broke up
when it was over—rather early, as a matter of fact.
We reached home shortly after eleven.”</p>

<p>“And you played snooker all the evening until
supper?”</p>

<p>“No. After an hour or more we dropped it and
played four-handed billiards.”</p>

<p>“Then some player must have stood out?”</p>

<p>“Yes. Mrs. Berlyn said she must go and see how
the others were getting along. She watched us
play for some time, then went to the drawing room.
She came back after a few minutes to say that
supper was ready.”</p>

<p>“Now, Dr. Lancaster, just one other question.
Can you tell me at what time Mrs. Berlyn went into
the drawing room?”</p>

<p>“I really don’t think I can. I wasn’t paying
special attention to her movements. I should say
perhaps half an hour before supper, but I couldn’t be
sure.”</p>

<p>“That’s all right,” said French. “Now if I
could see Mrs. Lancaster for a moment I should be
done.”</p>

<p>Mrs. Lancaster was a dark, vivacious little
woman who seemed to remember the evening in
question much more clearly than did her husband.</p>

<p>“Yes,” she said, “I was playing bridge with Miss
Lucy Pym, Mr. Cowls, and Mr. Leacock. I
remember Mrs. Berlyn coming in about ten. She
laughed and said: ‘Oh, my children, don’t be
frightened. I couldn’t think of disturbing such a serious
game. I’ll go back to our snooker.’ She went away,
and presently came back and called us to the library
to supper.”</p>

<p>“How long was she away, Mrs. Lancaster?”</p>

<p>“About twenty minutes, I should think.”</p>

<p>This seemed to French to be all that he wanted.
However, he thought it wise to get the key of the
Berlyns’ house and have a look at the layout. The
drawing room was in front, with the library behind
it, but between the two there was a passage with a
side door leading into the garden. He felt satisfied
as to the use to which that passage had been put
on the night in question. He could picture Mrs.
Berlyn fixing up the uneven number of guests, among
whom would be some who played billiards and
some who did not. The proposals for snooker and
bridge would almost automatically follow, involving
the division of the party in two rooms. Mrs.
Berlyn as hostess would reasonably be the odd man
out when the change was made from snooker to
billiards. The result of these arrangements would be
that when she slipped out to the works through the
side door, each party would naturally assume she
was with the other, while if any question as to this
arose, her reëntry at supper-time would suggest to
both that she had gone out to overlook its
preparation.</p>

<p>These discoveries justified French’s theory, but
they did not prove it, and he racked his brains for
some test which would definitely establish the point.</p>

<p>At last an idea occurred to him which he thought
might at least help.</p>

<p>In considering Mrs. Berlyn as her husband’s
accomplice he had been doubtful whether there would
have been sufficient time for the various actions. If
after Berlyn’s arrival at the works with the body
Mrs. Berlyn had driven the car back to where it was
found, changed the magneto, and made the
footprints, he did not believe she could have walked
home in time to wake the servants at the hour
stated. Nor did he believe that Berlyn, after
disposing of the body in the works, could have been
able on foot to make Domlio’s in time to hide the
clothes in the well before the sergeant’s call.</p>

<p>He now wondered whether Mrs. Berlyn’s bicycle
could have been pressed into the service. Could the
lady have brought the machine to the works, lifted
it into the tonneau of the car, carried it out on the
moor, and ridden back on it to the works? And
could her husband have used it to reach first
Domlio’s and then Plymouth or some other large town
from which he had escaped?</p>

<p>To test the matter, French returned to Lizzie
Johnston and asked her if she knew what had
become of the bicycle.</p>

<p>But the girl could not tell him. Nor could she
recall when or where she had seen it last. She
supposed it had been sold at the auction, but in the
excitement of that time she had not noticed it.</p>

<p>“Where did Mrs. Berlyn get it, do you know?”</p>

<p>“From Makepeace’s. He has bicycles same as
motors. He’ll tell you about it.”</p>

<p>Half an hour later French was talking to Mr.
Makepeace. He remembered having some five
years earlier sold the machine to Mrs. Berlyn.
He looked up his records, and after considerable
trouble found a note of the transaction. The
bicycle was a Swift, and number 35,721. It had
certain dimensions and peculiarities of which he gave
French details.</p>

<p>French’s next call was on the auctioneer who had
conducted the sale of the Berlyn effects. Mr. Nankivell
appeared <i lang="fr">au fait</i> with the whole case and was
obviously thrilled to meet French. He made no
difficulty about giving the required information. A
bicycle had not been among the articles auctioned,
nor had he seen one during his visits to the house.</p>

<p>This was all very well as far as it went, but it
was negative. French wanted to find some one who
could say definitely what had happened to the
machine. He consulted with Sergeant Daw and at
last came to the conclusion that if Peter Swann, the
gardener-chauffeur, could be found, he might be able
to give the information. Daw believed he had
gone to Chagford, and he telephoned to the
sergeant there, asking him to make enquiries.</p>

<p>In the afternoon there was a reply to the effect
that the man was employed by a market gardener
near Chagford, and French at once took a car over
to see him. Swann remembered the bicycle well,
as he had had to keep it clean. He had seen it in
the woodshed on the day before the tragedy, but
next morning it was gone. He had looked for it
particularly, as he wished to use it to take a
message to the town and he had wondered where it
could have got to. He had never seen it again. He
had not asked about it, as he had not considered
that his business.</p>

<p>Once again French experienced the keen delight
of finding his deductions justified by the event. In
this whole case he had really excelled himself. On
several different points he had imagined what might
have occurred, and on a test being made, his idea
had been proved correct. Some work that! As he
did not fail to remind himself, it showed the highest
type of ability.</p>

<p>The next thing was to find the bicycle. He
returned for the night to Ashburton, and next
morning went down to see the superintendent of police
at Plymouth. That officer listened with interest to
his story and promised to have a search made
without delay. When he had rung up and asked for
similar enquiries to be made in the other large towns
within a cycle ride of the moor, French found
himself at a loose end.</p>

<p>“You should have a look round the place,” the
superintendent advised. “There’s a lot to see in
Plymouth.”</p>

<p>French took the advice and went for a stroll
round the city. He was not impressed by the streets,
though he admired St. Andrew’s Church, the
Guildhall, and some of the other buildings in the same
locality. But when, after wandering through some
more or less uninteresting residential streets, he
unexpectedly came out on the Hoe, he held his
breath. The promenade along the top of the cliff
was imposing enough, though no better than he had
seen many times before. But the view of the Sound
was unique. The sea, light blue in the morning sun,
stretched from the base of the cliff beneath his feet
out past Drake’s Island and the long line of the
Breakwater to a clear horizon. On the right was
Mount Edgcumbe, tree clad to the water’s edge,
while far away out to the southwest was the faint
white pillar of the Eddystone lighthouse. French
gazed and admired, then going down to the Sutton
Pool, he explored the older part of the town for the
best part of an hour.</p>

<p>When he presently reached the police station he
was delighted to find that news had just then come
in. The bicycle had been found. It had been
pawned by a man, apparently a labourer, shortly
after the shop opened on the morning of Tuesday,
the 16th August; the morning, French reminded
himself delightedly, after the crime. The man had
stated that the machine was his daughter’s and had
been given two pounds on it. He had not returned
since, nor had the machine been redeemed.</p>

<p>“We’re trying to trace the man, but after this
lapse of time I don’t suppose we shall be able,” the
superintendent declared. “I expect this Berlyn
abandoned the machine when he reached Plymouth,
and our friend found it and thought he had better
make hay while the sun shone.”</p>

<p>“So likely that I don’t think it matters whether
you find him or not,” French returned.</p>

<p>“I agree, but we shall have a shot at it, all the
same. By the way, Mr. French, it’s a curious thing
that you should call to-day. Only yesterday I was
talking to a friend of yours—an ass, if you don’t
mind my saying so, but married to one of the most
delightful young women I’ve ever come across.
Lives at Dartmouth.”</p>

<p>“Dartmouth?” French laughed. “That gives me
a clue. You mean that cheery young optimist,
Maxwell Cheyne? He is an ass right enough, but he’s
not a bad soul at bottom. And the girl’s a stunner.
How are they getting along?”</p>

<p>“Tip-top. He’s taken to writing tales. Doing
quite well with them, too, I believe. They’re very
popular down there, both of them.”</p>

<p>“Glad to hear it. Well, Superintendent, I must
be getting along. Thanks for your help.”</p>

<p>French was full of an eager optimism as the
result of these discoveries. The disappearance of the
bicycle, added to the breakdown of the alibi, seemed
definitely to prove his theory of Mrs. Berlyn’s
complicity.</p>

<p>But when he considered the identity of the person
whom Mrs. Berlyn had thus assisted, he had to
admit himself staggered. That Berlyn had
murdered Pyke had seemed an obvious theory. Now
French was not so certain of it. The lady had
undoubtedly been in love with Pyke. Surely it was
too much to suppose she would help her husband
to murder her lover?</p>

<p>Had it been the other way round, had Phyllis and
Pyke conspired to kill Berlyn, the thing would have
been easier to understand. Wife and lover against
husband was a common enough combination. But
the evidence against this idea was strong. Not only
was there the identification of the clothes and
birthmark, but there was the strong presumption that the
man who disposed of the crate in Wales was Berlyn.
At the same time this evidence of identification was
not quite conclusive, and French determined to keep
the possibility in view and test it rigorously as
occasion offered.</p>

<p>And then another factor occurred to him, an
extremely disturbing factor, which bade fair to
change his whole view of the case. He saw that
even if Pyke had murdered Berlyn it would not clear
up the situation. In fact, this new idea suggested
that it was impossible either that Pyke could have
murdered Berlyn or that Berlyn could have
murdered Pyke.</p>

<p>What, he asked himself, must have been the
motive for such a crime? Certainly not merely to
gratify a feeling of hate. The motive undoubtedly
was to enable the survivor to claim Phyllis as his
wife and to live with her in good social standing and
without fear of his rival. But the crime, French
reminded himself, had a peculiar feature. The
staged accident on the moor involved the disappearance
of <em>both</em> actors, the murderer as well as the
victim. If, then, the murderer disappeared, he
could not live with Phyllis. If either Berlyn or
Pyke were guilty, therefore, he had carried out the
crime in a way which robbed him of the very results
for which he had committed it.</p>

<p>French saw that he was up against a puzzling
dilemma. If Berlyn had murdered Pyke, it was
unlikely that Mrs. Berlyn would have assisted. If, on
the other hand, Pyke had murdered Berlyn, Mrs.
Berlyn’s action was clear, but not Pyke’s, for Pyke
could get nothing out of it.</p>

<p>French swore bitterly as he realised that in all
probability his former view of the case was incorrect
and that he was once again without any really
satisfactory theory on which to work. Nor did some
hours’ thought point the way to a solution of his
problem.</p>

<p>At least, however, he saw his next step. Mrs.
Berlyn was the accomplice of <em>some one</em>. That some
one was doubtless alive and biding his time until he
thought it safe to join the lady. If so, she was
pretty sure to know his whereabouts. Could she be
made to reveal it?</p>

<p>French thought that if in some way he could give
her a thorough fright, she might try to get a
warning through. It would then be up to him to
intercept her message, which would give him the
information he required.</p>

<p>This meant London. He slept the night in
Plymouth, and next day, which was Saturday, travelled
up to Paddington.</p>



<h2>Chapter Seventeen: “Danger!”</h2>

<p>Before leaving Plymouth French had wired to
Mrs. Berlyn, asking for an interview for the
following Monday morning. On reaching the Yard
he found a reply. If he called round about half
past ten the lady would see him. He rang his bell
for Sergeant Carter.</p>

<p>“I shall want you with me to-day, Carter,” he
explained. “Have a taxi ready at ten-fifteen.”</p>

<p>As they were driving toward Chelsea he explained
the business.</p>

<p>“It’s to help me to shadow a woman, a Mrs.
Phyllis Berlyn. Lives at 70b Park Walk. There’s
her photograph. When I go in, you keep this taxi
and be ready to pick me up when I want you.”</p>

<p>If he were to tap a possible S O S, he must begin
by finding out if his victim had a telephone. He
therefore got out at the end of Park Walk, and
passing the house, turned into an entry leading to
the lane which ran along behind the row. The
absence of wires front and rear showed that the
house was not connected up. Then he went to the
door and knocked. Mrs. Berlyn received him at
once.</p>

<p>“I am very sorry, madame,” he began, gravely,
“to have to come on serious and unpleasant
business. In my enquiries into the death of Mr. Pyke
certain facts have come out. These facts require
an explanation, and they point to you as being
perhaps the only person who can give it. I have,
therefore, called to ask you some questions, but I have
to warn you that you are not bound to answer them,
as in certain eventualities anything you say might
be used against you.”</p>

<p>Mrs. Berlyn looked startled.</p>

<p>“Whatever do you mean, Inspector?” she
demanded. “You don’t mean against me personally,
I suppose, but against my husband? I do not forget
the terrible suggestion you made.”</p>

<p>“I mean against you personally, madam. As I
say, I want an explanation of certain facts. If you
care to give it I shall hear it with attention, but if
you would prefer to consult a solicitor first, you
can do so.”</p>

<p>“Good gracious! Inspector, you are terrifying me!
You are surely not suggesting that you suspect me
of complicity in this awful crime?”</p>

<p>“I make no accusations. All I want is answers
to my questions.”</p>

<p>Mrs. Berlyn grew slowly dead white. She
moistened her dry lips.</p>

<p>“This is terrible,” she said in low tones. French
had some twinges of conscience, for, after all, he
was only bluffing. He recognised, however, that
the greater the effect he produced, the more likely
he was to get what he wanted. He therefore
continued his third degree.</p>

<p>“If you are innocent, madam, I can assure you
that you have nothing to fear,” he encouraged her,
thereby naturally increasing her perturbation. “Now
would you like to answer my questions or not?”</p>

<p>She did not hesitate. “I have no option,” she
exclaimed in somewhat shaky tones. “If I do not
do so your suspicions will be confirmed. Ask what
you like. I have nothing to hide and therefore
cannot give myself away.”</p>

<p>“I am glad to hear you say so,” French declared,
grimly. “First I want you to give me a more
detailed account of your relations with Colonel
Domlio.”</p>

<p>“Why,” the lady explained, “I told you all about
that on your last visit. Colonel Domlio was very
friendly, exceedingly friendly, I might say. But we
had no relations”—she stressed the word—“in the
sense which your question seems to indicate.”</p>

<p>“How did your friendship begin?”</p>

<p>“Through my husband. He and Colonel Domlio
were old friends and it was natural that we should
see something of him. He visited at our house and
we at his.”</p>

<p>“That was when you first went to Ashburton, was
it not?”</p>

<p>“Not only then. It was so all the time I lived
there.”</p>

<p>“But I don’t mean that. I understand that about
four months before the tragedy your friendship
became much more intense, if I may use the word?”</p>

<p>“Intense is certainly not the word, but it is true
that we met more frequently after the time you
mention. I thought I had explained that. It was
then that my husband became dissatisfied about my
perfectly harmless friendship with Mr. Pyke. As I
told you, Mr. Pyke and I decided to see less of
each other. I was therefore thrown more on my
own resources and frankly I was bored. I filled a
little more of the time with Colonel Domlio than
formerly. That is all.”</p>

<p>“Who began this increased intimacy?”</p>

<p>“Our intimacy was not increased. We saw more
of each other—a very different thing. I began it;
in this way. In London I heard some lectures on
insect life. I was interested in the subject and I
asked Colonel Domlio to let me see his collection.
We began to talk about it, and it ended in my
going out with him occasionally to look for specimens
on the moor and also in my helping him to arrange
them afterwards. That was the beginning and end
of what you are pleased to call our ‘intimacy.’ ”</p>

<p>The look of fright had left Mrs. Berlyn’s eyes
and she was speaking now with more of her usual
assurance.</p>

<p>“You sprained your ankle one day?”</p>

<p>“I twisted it slightly. It was painful for a few
hours, but not really much the worse.”</p>

<p>“You fell?”</p>

<p>“I did not fall. I should have done so, but
Colonel Domlio sprang forward and caught me and
helped me down on to the grass. In a few minutes
I was better.”</p>

<p>“Now, Mrs. Berlyn,” and French’s voice was very
grave, “what you have to do is to convince me that
that fall into Colonel Domlio’s arms really was an
accident.”</p>

<p>For a moment the lady looked at him
uncomprehendingly; then she flushed angrily.</p>

<p>“Oh,” she cried with a gesture of disgust, “how
dare you? This is insufferable! I shall not answer
you. If you are coming here to insult me I shall
apply for protection to your superiors at Scotland
Yard.”</p>

<p>“If I were you I should keep away from
Scotland Yard as long as you can,” French advised,
drily. “In a case like this heroics will not help
you any. Tell me, did you know there was a
photographer watching the incident?”</p>

<p>“No,” she answered sullenly, while again her face
showed fear.</p>

<p>“You knew there wasn’t?”</p>

<p>“I didn’t know anything about it.”</p>

<p>“But you are not surprised to hear of the
photographer?”</p>

<p>“I am. At least I should be if you assured me
one was there.”</p>

<p>“Did you know that the handwriting of Colonel
Domlio’s letter has been identified?”</p>

<p>Once again the colour ebbed away from her face.</p>

<p>“What letter?” she cried, faintly. “I don’t know
what letter you mean or what you are talking about.
You have made me quite confused with your
questions. I scarcely know what I am saying.”</p>

<p>French felt that he had got the effect he wanted.
He therefore reassured her by a few innocuous
questions, then with a change of manner he apologised
for having given unnecessary annoyance and took
his leave.</p>

<p>The taxi was standing far down the street with
the bonnet open and the driver bending over the
engine. French got in and he and Carter sat
watching the house.</p>

<p>For half an hour they waited; then Mrs. Berlyn
appeared, and walking to King’s Road, turned in
the direction of Sloan Square. Presently she hailed
a taxi, causing French to congratulate himself on
his prevision.</p>

<p>Mrs. Berlyn drove to Victoria, and hurriedly
paying off their own man, the detectives followed her
into the station. With a rapid look round she made
her way to the telephone boxes and disappeared into
one of them.</p>

<p>“I’ll drop out here, Carter,” French said. “You
stick to the woman and as far as possible keep in
touch with the Yard.”</p>

<p>Approaching the boxes, French slipped into a
convenient doorway and watched until Mrs. Berlyn
reappeared. As soon as she was out of sight he
entered the box she had left.</p>

<p>“Inspector from Scotland Yard speaking,” he told
the operator. “Keep the number of that last call.
It’s wanted in connection with a murder case. I’ll
get you the authority to divulge. Now give me
Scotland Yard, please.”</p>

<p>He put through the request for the number, then
returned to the Yard to wait for the reply. After a
short delay he received both number and name:
Thomas Ganope, news agent and tobacconist, 27
Oakley Street, off Russell Street.</p>

<p>In half an hour he reached the place. Ganope’s
was a small, untidy shop, and Ganope a ruffianly-looking
man with purple cheeks and a cast in his
left eye. He was the only occupant of the shop.</p>

<p>“Can I use your telephone?” French asked, laying
a shilling on the counter.</p>

<p>“Sure.”</p>

<p>French rang up his wife to say that he had
mislaid Mr. Walker’s address and could she let him
have it again, a code message designed for such
occasions and to which no attention was paid, but which
enabled him to use a telephone without arousing
suspicion, as well as a writing pad, should such be
available. For in this case his quick eye had seen
such a pad on the instrument and from many a pad
he had read the last message to be written from
the impression left on the paper. On chance,
therefore, he made a pretense of noting the mythical Mr.
Walker’s address, and removing the top sheet, put
it in his pocketbook. Then he turned to Mr.
Ganope.</p>

<p>“Say,” he said, confidentially, “what would you
charge for taking in telephone messages and
sending them to an address? Private, you know.”</p>

<p>Mr. Ganope looked him over keenly with one of
his shrewd little eyes.</p>

<p>“A bob a message, if it’s near by.”</p>

<p>“That’s a lot. Do you never do it for less?”</p>

<p>Mr. Ganope seemed disgusted.</p>

<p>“If you can get anyone to do it for less you’d
better go to them,” he advised, sourly.</p>

<p>“I might manage the money if I was sure the thing
would be done right,” French went on. “How do
you send out the messages? I mean is your
arrangement reliable? Do you do it yourself or have
you a messenger?”</p>

<p>“Wot do you tyke me for, mister? Do you think
the shop would run itself while I was away? You
don’t need to worry. You pay your bob and you’ll
get your message all right.”</p>

<p>“Not good enough for me. I want to know what
kind of messenger you’d send before I trust my
business to you.”</p>

<p>“See ’ere,” the man declared, “I’ve been doing
this business for long enough to know all about ’ow
it’s done. I’ve a good boy, if you must know. You
give ’im a penny or two a time if you’re nervous,
and you needn’t be afryde but you’ll get all there’s
for you.”</p>

<p>French laid five shillings on the counter.</p>

<p>“Right,” he said. “There’s for the first five
messages. Send to Mr. James Hurley, care of Mr.
William Wright, tobacconist, corner of Bedford
Place and Ivy Street.”</p>

<p>“I know it,” declared Ganope, pocketing the
money.</p>

<p>Mr. William Wright was a distant connection of
Mrs. French’s and French knew that he would help
him in the matter. He nodded to Ganope and
walked across to Ivy Street.</p>

<p>“Hullo, Joe! Some time since we’ve seen you
here,” was Mr. Wright’s greeting. “Come in
behind and let’s hear the news.”</p>

<p>“I want you to do me a good turn, William,”
French answered. “There’s a boy I want to get
hold of and I’ve fixed it that he’ll come here asking
for Mr. Hurley. Will you put him on to me when
he turns up? That’s all.”</p>

<p>“Surely, Joe,” and Mr. Wright turned the
conversation to more intimate matters.</p>

<p>“Just let me use your phone,” French asked,
presently. “Something I forgot.”</p>

<p>“Surely, Joe.”</p>

<p>Going into the little office at the back of the shop,
French rang up Ganope.</p>

<p>“Message for Hurley,” he explained in falsetto
tones. “Mr. James Hurley.”</p>

<p>“Right,” came from the other end.</p>

<p>“ ‘Cargo will be in at ten-fifteen to-morrow.’
That’s all. Repeat, please.”</p>

<p>Mr. Ganope repeated slowly, evidently as he
wrote, and French settled down with his pipe to
await the advent of the messenger.</p>

<p>In less than half an hour a sharp, foxy-looking
boy turned up and Mr. Wright sent him into the
sitting-room to French.</p>

<p>“Hullo, sonny! You from Ganope’s?”</p>

<p>“Huh-huh,” said the boy. “Name of Hurley?”</p>

<p>“That’s right. You have a message for me?”</p>

<p>“Huh-huh.” He slowly produced an envelope,
watching French expectantly.</p>

<p>French produced sixpence.</p>

<p>“There you are, sonny. Wait half a sec till I
read this. There may be an answer.”</p>

<p>He tore open the envelope and glanced at its
contents.</p>

<p>“No, there’s nothing,” he went on. “You’re kept
busy, I’m sure?”</p>

<p>“Huh-huh.”</p>

<p>“And maybe you don’t get too much money for it,
either?”</p>

<p>The boy indicated that this was a true summary
of his case.</p>

<p>“Well, how would half a crown for a little job for
me suit you?”</p>

<p>The gleam in the boy’s eyes was sufficient answer.</p>

<p>“It’s just a little bit of information between you
and me. No one else would know anything about it.
It wouldn’t take you two minutes to give it to me.
Are you on?”</p>

<p>“Ain’t I, gov’nor? You just try me.”</p>

<p>French took some money out of his pocket and
slowly counted out two single shillings and a
sixpence. These he laid on the table in a little pile.</p>

<p>“Tell me, sonny,” he said. “You had to take a
message out this morning shortly after eleven?”</p>

<p>“Huh-huh.”</p>

<p>“Where did you take it to?”</p>

<p>“You won’t tell the old man?”</p>

<p>“I’ll not, sonny. I give you my word.”</p>

<p>“Name o’ Pyke, seventeen Kepple Street.”</p>

<p>In spite of his training as an officer of the Yard,
French started. Pyke! He remained for a
moment lost in thought. Pyke! Could this be the
solution at last? Could Mrs. Berlyn have transferred
her somewhat facile affections to Jefferson
Pyke? Could these two be guilty of the murder of
both Stanley and Berlyn?</p>

<p>Here was a promising idea! In the first place,
it was the solution to the dilemma which had so
greatly puzzled him. The crime had been
committed to enable the murderer to live with Phyllis
in good social standing. Therefore, the murderer
could not have disappeared. Therefore, it could
not have been either Berlyn or Pyke. There had
been French’s problem.</p>

<p>But if Jefferson Pyke and Phyllis had been
accomplices, all these difficulties vanished. Berlyn and
Pyke had disappeared because they were dead. The
murderer had survived to enjoy the fruits of his
crime. All the facts seemed to be met.</p>

<p>In itself, also, this new theory was likely enough.
Jefferson and Phyllis had been playmates and an old
attachment might easily have flamed up anew on
their meeting at Ashburton. If so, there was the
motive for Berlyn’s murder. Stanley Pyke might
also have been in the way. Possibly Phyllis was
so far entangled with him that to break loose would
have turned him into a dangerous enemy. Possibly
the accomplices feared that he might guess their
crime. Under the circumstances it was easy to see
that their only safe scheme might well have been
to remove both men.</p>

<p>The details also worked in. Phyllis could have
obtained the information about the works necessary
for the disposal of the body. Jefferson was of the
size and build of the man who had called for the
lorry and crate at Swansea, and though his
colouring was different, this could have been altered
artificially. He could be biding his time until he was
sure the affair had blown over to take Phyllis out
to his <i lang="es">estancia</i> in the Argentine.</p>

<p>Another point occurred to French. Alfred Beer
had stated, no doubt in all good faith, that the
conversation he had overheard in the Berlyn’s
shrubbery was between Mrs. Berlyn and Stanley Pyke,
and French had naturally assumed that the “ ’e”
referred to was Berlyn. But were he and Beer
correct? Might the scene not equally well have
been between the lady and Jefferson and might
“ ’e” not have been Stanley? French decided to
look up his notes of the matter at the earliest
opportunity.</p>

<p>He had little doubt that at long last he was on to
the truth. Jubilantly he handed over the half-crown
to Ganope’s boy and dismissed him with the
assurance that he would never hear of the matter again.</p>

<p>As to his next step there could be no question.
He walked quickly to Kepple Street and asked if
Mr. Jefferson Pyke was at home.</p>

<p>Pyke was out, but was expected shortly.
Hugging himself for his luck, French said that if he
might, he would like to wait for Mr. Pyke. The
landlady remembered his previous visit and made
no difficulty about showing him up to her lodger’s
sitting room.</p>

<p>Before the door closed behind her French saw
that his lucky star was still in the ascendant. There
on the chimneypiece stood a note addressed “Mr.
Jefferson Pyke” in the same handwriting as that for
“Mr. James Hurley.”</p>

<p>French carried an old razor blade in his pocket
and in less than a minute the envelope was open.
The note read:</p>

<p>“Danger. Meet me to-night at old time and
place.”</p>

<p>French swore softly in high delight. He had
them now! Here was convincing proof of their
guilt.</p>

<p>But it was insufficient to bring into court. He
must get something more definite. With skilful
fingers he reclosed the envelope and put it back
where he had found it. Then he settled down to
wait for Pyke.</p>

<p>In less than ten minutes the man appeared.
French, smiling his pleasant smile, greeted him
apologetically.</p>

<p>“Sorry to trouble you again, Mr. Pyke, but I
want to ask you for a little further help in this
Ashburton affair. I have made a discovery, but first
I must ask you to keep what I have to say to
yourself.”</p>

<p>Pyke nodded.</p>

<p>“Of course, Mr. French. Sit down, won’t you,
and tell me what I can do for you.”</p>

<p>“All I want is a little information,” French
declared, taking the proffered chair. “I may tell you
between ourselves that certain facts suggest that
Colonel Domlio may have been involved. Can you
tell me anything that might help me to a decision,
anything that your cousin told you or that Mr.
Berlyn may have said in your presence?”</p>

<p>Pyke shook his head.</p>

<p>“Colonel Domlio?” he repeated. “Why, no! I
never thought of such a thing, and neither Stanley
nor Berlyn ever said anything to suggest it.”</p>

<p>French continued to question him long enough to
convince him that this was really the business on
which he had called. Then he tried to discount the
effect which Mrs. Berlyn’s note would have when
at last the man had an opportunity to read it.</p>

<p>“I’ve been to see Mrs. Berlyn on this matter,”
he explained. “I’m afraid I was rather rude to
her, but I just had to frighten her in order to
satisfy myself as to whether or not she suspected
the colonel. But at least I apologised afterward. I
think she forgave me.”</p>

<p>“And did she suspect Domlio?”</p>

<p>“No, I’m sure she did not. And that counts in
the colonel’s favour, for she knew him pretty well.
Aren’t you thankful you’re not a detective, Mr.
Pyke?”</p>

<p>They chatted easily for some moments and then
French thinking that some information about the
other’s former movements might be useful, turned
the conversation to travel.</p>

<p>“You had a pleasant trip to the south of France
with your late cousin, I understand?” he remarked.
“I wonder if you’d tell me something about it?
I’ve just done enough traveling myself to whet my
appetite for more, and the idea of the south of
France absolutely fascinates me. What part did
you go to?”</p>

<p>“The Riviera and Provence,” Pyke answered,
with a subtle change of manner. Up to the present
he had been polite; now he was interested. “I can
tell you, Inspector, that if you’re fond of travelling
you should try those districts. You’d enjoy every
moment of it.”</p>

<p>“It’s not doubt of that which keeps me away.
Money and time are my trouble. Did you get as
far as Italy?”</p>

<p>“Yes. I’ll tell you our itinerary if you care to
hear it. We went round to Marseilles by long sea.
A jolly sail, that. Then——”</p>

<p>“Good weather?” French interposed. He wanted
plenty of detail so that he could check the
statements up.</p>

<p>“It was dirty when we left Birkenhead and choppy
in the Irish Sea. But it quieted down as we got
across the Bay, and from St. Vincent to Gata
the sea was like a mirror—an absolute flat calm
without a ripple showing. Glorious! Then after
Gata we ran into fog, which wasn’t so nice. But
we got into Marseilles on time.”</p>

<p>“Birkenhead? That’s the Bibby Line, isn’t it?”</p>

<p>“Yes, we went on the <i>Flintshire</i>. Fine boat of
16,000 tons.”</p>

<p>“I’ve heard those boats well spoken of. I envy
you, Mr. Pyke. Then from Marseilles?”</p>

<p>“From Marseilles we went straight through to
San Remo. We spent three or four days there,
then worked back to Grasse; that’s a small town
where they make perfume, between Nice and Cannes,
but a bit inland. I’m considering going into the
flower trade and I wanted to see the gardens. A
wonderful sight all that country must be with
flowers in the season!”</p>

<p>“I’ve read about it,” French assured him. “It’s
one of the places I’ve got on my list. Flowers and
pretty girls, eh?”</p>

<p>“That’s right. We had a dandy specimen to
show us round the perfume factory.”</p>

<p>“I guess I’ll see that factory,” French declared.
“Are there good hotels in a small place like that?”</p>

<p>“We stayed at the Metropole and it was quite
all right. Then we worked slowly up through
Provence, staying a night in different towns—Marseilles,
Nîmes, Arles, Avignon, and so on to Paris.
I’ve got all mixed about the places, we saw so many.
An interesting country that, Inspector! There are
buildings standing there for sixteen hundred years
and more. Wonderful! First chance you get you
should go down and see for yourself. But don’t
do it as we did.”</p>

<p>“How do you mean?”</p>

<p>“Don’t go from place to place, staying in each for
a night. Stay at a centre. Avignon is a first rate
one. There are day char-à-banc trips that let you
see all these places and you don’t have the nuisance
of packing and going to a fresh hotel every day.”</p>

<p>“That’s a point, certainly. Thanks for the tip.
Where do you recommend staying in Paris?”</p>

<p>If Pyke recognised that French was merely
pumping him he gave no sign, but replied, readily:</p>

<p>“We stayed at the Regina and found it quite
good. But we just broke the journey for a night.
Next day we came on here.”</p>

<p>“To these rooms?”</p>

<p>“No. I hadn’t taken them then. We stayed a
night at the Houston. That’s the night I had such
a joke on Stanley.”</p>

<p>“That sounds interesting.”</p>

<p>“I don’t know how he did it, but while he was
dressing he knocked the basin off the stand and it
broke and soaked his shoes and deluged the room.
You know they have old-fashioned separate basins
there, not running water as you get abroad. I
imagine he must have set the basin down on a
corner of the towel, and when he picked up the towel
it twitched the basin off. The wretched thing must
have been cracked, for it went into two pieces.
But they charged him for it, all right.”</p>

<p>“Rough luck, Mr. Pyke. And after that you
both thought one night enough to stay?”</p>

<p>Pyke laughed.</p>

<p>“I wanted rooms,” he explained. “Next day I
found these and moved in.”</p>

<p>“I suppose your late cousin went back to
Ashburton at the same time?”</p>

<p>“Not quite directly, I think. He went to see
some people near Bath. I believe he said for two
days only, but I’m not sure.”</p>

<p>“Do you soon return to the Argentine, Mr.
Pyke?”</p>

<p>“I’ve not made up my mind. I like this country
and I’m half thinking of settling down here and
growing flowers for the London market. I’m sick
of ranching, anyway, and I’ve instructed my
solicitors to begin negotiations for the sale of my
property. Of course I’ll have to go out to see to
that, but I think I’ll come back very soon.”</p>

<p>They continued chatting about the Roman remains
in Provence until at last French looked at his
watch and said he must go.</p>

<p>He was jubilant as to his progress. He believed
that he had accounted for his presence and that
Pyke suspected nothing. He had also obtained
enough information to check practically the whole
of the man’s movements from his departure with
Stanley for his holiday down to the present time.
The end of the affair was in sight. And that
evening, he promised himself, should see him a step
farther on his road.</p>



<h2>Chapter Eighteen: On Hampstead Heath</h2>

<p>French telephoned for a relief to take over the
shadowing of Pyke during the afternoon, but by six
o’clock he was back in Kepple Street, with the
intention of being, if possible, present at the
rendezvous of his new suspects.</p>

<p>“He’s not shown up since,” Sergeant Harvey
explained. “No one called, but one person left the
house, a girl of about twenty. She returned in about
two hours.”</p>

<p>“Tall, good-looking girl, fair hair and blue eyes?”
French suggested. “I know her—the landlady’s
daughter. I saw her when I called. That’ll do,
Harvey. You can get away. I shall manage alone.”</p>

<p>It was a fine evening, but cold. The last
glimmerings of daylight were disappearing from the sky
and outside the radius of the street lamps stars
began to show. It looked as if there would be frost
later.</p>

<p>To keep a secret watch on a house in a city street
is a feat requiring no little skill. Though French
had reached the stage in which he left most of such
work to his underlings, he was a past master in the
art. Yet as first seven, then eight, then nine struck
from the surrounding clocks it required all his
ingenuity to give the appearance of being detained on
some ordinary and unimportant business. He
strolled up and down, hiding in alley ways and
behind projecting corners and moving on at intervals
from one such place of vantage to another. He
had engaged a taxi in case his quarry should do the
same, and for a good part of the time he employed
the old device of sitting back in its deepest recesses
while the driver gave a lengthy first aid to his
refractory engine.</p>

<p>At last, when he had become stiff with cold and
was cursing mentally but steadily at the delay, Pyke
appeared and started off quickly towards Russell
Square. French drew back into the entry in which
he was taking cover and allowed him to pass, then
having signed to his driver to keep him in sight, he
followed the quarry as closely as he dared. Pyke
turned down Montague Street, walking by New
Oxford Street and Charing Cross Road to Charing
Cross Station. He seemed about to enter the
station, but, suddenly glancing round, he turned to the
right and dived down the steps to the Hampstead
and Highgate tube. French had already settled up
with his driver and he followed without delay.</p>

<p>Keeping close behind, French shadowed his man
to the platform and entered the next coach of the
Hampstead train which the other boarded. At
each station he watched the alighting passengers,
but it was not until Hampstead was reached that
Pyke appeared. Twenty feet apart, the two men
passed out into the street and up the hill towards the
Heath.</p>

<p>At the wide space at the entrance to the Heath
French fell further behind. Pyke was now strolling
easily along, as if out for a breath of air before
bed. He passed in towards the left near Jack
Straw’s Castle, taking one of the side paths which
led to the wilder areas. Here were fewer people,
and French dropped back till he could just see the
man’s light fawn coat like a faint smudge against
the dark background of the trees.</p>

<p>Some four or five hundred yards from the
entrance, down in the hollow, there are a number of
thick clumps of bushes. Round one of these Pyke
passed and instantly became invisible. French
stopped in his turn and, tiptoeing to the nearer side
of the clump, began stealthily to creep nearer.
Though a certain amount of starlight showed in the
open, among the bushes it was pitchy black. There
was no wind, and in spite of the vast city
surrounding the place, scarcely a sound broke the stillness.
French crept on, stopping every few seconds to listen
intently. Presently he heard movements close by.
There were faint footsteps as if of a man pacing
up and down, and occasional soft scraping of leaves
and snapping of small twigs. Crawling under a
bush, French crouched down and waited.</p>

<p>For close on fifteen minutes the man paced
backwards and forwards, while French grew stiff in his
cramped position. Then light footsteps were heard
on the path alongside the clump and a woman
cleared her throat. The man moved out and said
something in a low voice, to which the other replied.
Then French heard Pyke say: “Come behind the
shrubs. There is no one about and we shan’t be
heard.”</p>

<p>They moved close to French, though not so near
as he would have liked. Listening intently, he could
hear a good deal, though not all, of their
conversation. The woman was Mrs. Berlyn and she was
saying: “He suspects something; I’m sure of it. I’ve
been just sick with terror all day. I thought I must
see you, and this seemed the only way. I was afraid
he might follow me if I met you publicly.”</p>

<p>There was a murmur of Pyke’s voice, but French
could not distinguish the words nor could he hear
Mrs. Berlyn’s reply. Then he heard Pyke say: “I
don’t think so. The note was there on the chimneypiece,
but I’m quite certain it hadn’t been opened. I
examined it carefully.”</p>

<p>Mrs. Berlyn’s intonation sounded like a question.</p>

<p>“Yes, I rang up Ganope and he said that no
enquiries had been made,” Pyke rejoined. “It’s all
right, Phyllis, I’m sure. Why, French explained
that he had frightened you deliberately in order to
find out your real opinion of Domlio.”</p>

<p>They seemed to turn away, for during some
moments French could only hear the murmur of their
voices. Then apparently they approached again.</p>

<p>“. . . I thought it was Charles he suspected,”
Mrs. Berlyn was saying; “then to-day I thought it
was myself. He knows a lot, Jeff. He knows about
Colonel Domlio’s letter and the photograph.”</p>

<p>“Yes, but that’s all immaterial. He doesn’t know
what really happened that night and he won’t know.”</p>

<p>“But if he arrests us?”</p>

<p>“Let him! As far as I am concerned, he can do
nothing. He can’t break down the evidence of all
those people in Manchester with whom I spent the
night of the murder. You, I admit, haven’t such
a watertight alibi, but it is impossible that he can
prove you committed a crime of which you are
absolutely innocent. And he can’t connect you with
Charles. Remember that we’ve no reason to
suppose he has the least idea that Charles is alive.”</p>

<p>“If he finds that out, he’ll suspect Charles, and
then he’ll suspect me as his accomplice.”</p>

<p>“I dare say,” Pyke admitted, “but he won’t find
out. Poor old Charles! I said to him on that last
day . . .”</p>

<p>The two moved off again, for Pyke’s voice died
down into an unintelligible murmur. Again for
some moments French could not distinguish what
was said, then the words came more clearly.</p>

<p>“No,” Pyke was saying. “I have a better plan
than that. To-morrow I’ll call at the Yard to see
French and I’ll confess to the murder. I’ll say that
my misery through remorse and suspense is worse
than anything I could afterwards suffer, and that I
just can’t bear it any longer. Lots of murderers
have done that and he’ll suspect nothing. He’ll of
course arrest me. Admittedly, he may arrest you
also. This, of course, I should infinitely regret, but
you will agree there is no other way. He’ll then
think he has solved his problem and he’ll look no
further afield. Before going to the Yard I’ll
communicate with Charles and Charles can make his
getaway. Then when Charles has had time to get
out of the country I shall produce my Manchester
witnesses and prove my innocence. The case against
you will then break down.”</p>

<p>“That’s all right except for two things,” Mrs.
Berlyn returned. “If Charles believed he could get
out of the country he would have done it long ago.
Secondly, why, if you prove your innocence, will the
case against me break down?”</p>

<p>“Those are easily answered. By the time Charles
was well enough to travel suspicion had been aroused
and every policeman in the country was on the
lookout for the Ashburton murderer. If I confess, the
watch at the ports will be relaxed. Besides . . .”</p>

<p>Again the words became unintelligible. There
was a faint sound of slowly pacing feet and the voice
dwindled. But after a short time the footsteps
again grew louder.</p>

<p>“. . . under the circumstances,” Mrs. Berlyn
was saying, “but, of course, if Charles is taken we
shall be accused of being his confederates.”</p>

<p>“Very possibly. But, Phyllis, what can we do?
We know old Charles is innocent, though things look
so badly against him. We can’t let him down. We
must do what we can to help him and take the risk.”</p>

<p>“I know. I know. But isn’t the whole thing just
<em>awful</em>! What have we done that we should get into
such a position? It’s too much!”</p>

<p>Her voice, though carefully repressed, was full
of suffering, and French could picture her wringing
her hands and on the verge of tears. Pyke
comforted her, though not at all in the tone of a lover,
then went on:</p>

<p>“It’s time that we went back, old girl. Until I
get the warning to Charles we mustn’t risk being
seen together, therefore you’d better go on by
yourself. I’ll follow in ten minutes.”</p>

<p>They bade each other an agitated farewell and
then Mrs. Berlyn’s light footsteps sounded on the
path. For another quarter of an hour Pyke
remained among the trees, his presence revealed by
occasional movements and by the whistling under his
breath of a melancholy little tune. Then at last he
also moved away and French was able to stretch his
aching limbs. Carefully he followed his man back
to the tube station and eventually to his rooms in
Kepple Street.</p>

<p>He did not know what to make of the conversation
to which he had just listened. The statements
made were so surprising and unexpected that at first
sight he was inclined to dismiss the whole thing as a
blind, deliberately arranged to throw him off the
scent. Then he saw that for several reasons this
could not be. In the first place, Phyllis and Pyke
did not know he was listening. In the second; such
a plan would require careful prearrangement, and
since his visit to Pyke the latter had had no
opportunity of communicating with Phyllis Berlyn. Then
there would be no object in such a scheme. They
surely did not imagine that because of it French
would relax his watch on them. Moreover, if it
were false, its falseness would be demonstrated on
the very next day. No, French felt the interview
must be genuine.</p>

<p>And if so, what a completely new view it gave of
the crime! Berlyn, Phyllis, and Jefferson Pyke all
apparently mixed up in the affair and all innocent!
Who, then, could be guilty? French had to own
himself completely puzzled. If this view were
correct, the murderer must be some one whom he
had not yet seriously considered.</p>

<p>Unless it could be Domlio, after all. Nothing
that the two had said directly precluded the possibility.
Of course, in this case it was difficult to see
why they should not denounce Domlio, if it would
free themselves and Berlyn from suspicion. But
then again, they might suspect Domlio, even perhaps
be reasonably certain of his guilt, and yet unable
to prove it.</p>

<p>French continued to turn the matter over in his
mind, and the more he did so the more he leaned to
the opinion that Domlio must be, after all, the
murderer. All the arguments which had before led
him to this conclusion recurred to him with
redoubled force and the difficulties in the theory
seemed more and more easily surmountable.
Domlio’s motor drive on the night of the crime, his denial
of the trip, the hiding of the clothes and duplicator
parts in the well, his depressed and absorbed
manner—these really were not accounted for by any
theory other than that of the man’s guilt. And
Domlio might easily have invented the story of the
photograph and produced the letter to account for
his nocturnal excursion.</p>

<p>Puzzled and worried, French began to believe
that he was on the wrong track in London and that
he must return to Devon and try once more to get
the truth from Domlio. But he would not relax
his watch on Mrs. Berlyn and Pyke. Pyke he would
himself shadow next day, so that if he communicated
with Berlyn he, French, would learn the latter’s
whereabouts.</p>

<p>He turned into the nearest telephone booth, and
ringing up the Yard, arranged for reliefs for
himself and Sergeant Carter. Then, Sergeant Deane
having taken over the watch in Kepple Street, he
went home.</p>

<p>Next morning he called at the Yard for Carter,
and about nine o’clock the two men reached Kepple
Street.</p>

<p>“That’ll do, Deane. You may get away,” French
greeted the night man. “Nothing stirred, I
suppose?”</p>

<p>“Nothing, sir. No one in or out the whole
night.”</p>

<p>“Now, Carter,” French went on, “it’s your show
mostly to-day. Pyke knows me and I’ll have to keep
in the background. You stay about here and I’ll get
a taxi and wait round the corner. If I see your
signal I’ll come along.”</p>

<p>Time soon began to drag for the watchers.
Evidently their man was in no hurry. Ten o’clock came,
then eleven, then eleven-thirty, and still he made no
sign. French began to grow seriously uneasy.</p>

<p>At last he could stand it no longer. He got out
of his taxi and strolled up to Carter.</p>

<p>“Go up to the door and ask for him, Carter. If
he sees you say I sent you to ask if he would call
round at the Yard any time this afternoon.”</p>

<p>Taking his subordinate’s place, he watched him
walk up to the door and knock. In a moment the
door was opened and Carter disappeared.</p>

<p>For several minutes he remained inside, while
French, growing more and more anxious every
second, remained pacing impatiently up and down.
Then Carter reappeared, and without any attempt
at secrecy beckoned to French.</p>

<p>“What is it?” the latter whispered, sharply, as
he joined the sergeant on the doorstep. “Anything
wrong?”</p>

<p>“I’m afraid so, sir. We can’t make him hear.”</p>

<p>French swore. A wave of misgiving swept over
him. Why in Heaven’s name hadn’t he arrested the
man last night when he had the chance? He pushed
into the house to meet an anxious-looking landlady
in the hall.</p>

<p>“I am Inspector French of Scotland Yard,” he
explained, quickly. “Where is Mr. Pyke?”</p>

<p>“Lawks!” said the landlady, recognising her
former visitor. “Are you police? And I thinking
you were a friend of Mr. Pyke’s all the time.”</p>

<p>“Yes, madam, I am a police officer and I want to
see Mr. Pyke at once. Where is he?”</p>

<p>The anxious look returned to the woman’s face.</p>

<p>“He’s in his room,” she explained. “But he’s
not had his breakfast and he won’t answer my
knocking. He said last night that he had a chill and
that he wouldn’t get up this morning, and for me
not to disturb him. But that’s no reason why he
shouldn’t answer a knock.”</p>

<p>“Which is his room?” said French, grimly. This
should be a lesson to him to avoid his confounded
trick of waiting till he was sure. If this man had
slipped through his hands, any chance of that chief
inspectorship was gone—if his job itself remained.</p>

<p>They went to a first-floor room at the back of the
house and French knocked peremptorily. There
was no reply.</p>

<p>“Down with the door, Carter. Put your shoulder
to it with me.”</p>

<p>Despite the protests of the landlady, both men
threw themselves on the door. With a tearing
sound the screws of the keeper drew out and the
door swung open.</p>

<p>The room was empty.</p>

<p>It was a large room, comfortable furnished as a
bed-sitting room. It was not disarranged in any
way, but the lower sash of the window was fully
up. French hurriedly crossed to it and looked out.
It gave on the yard, and about four feet below the
sill was the roof of a small shed. This shed ran
along the side of the yard at right angles to the main
house, its further gable being against the wall
between the yard and the lane which passed at the back
of the houses. The roof of the shed formed a direct
passage from the room to the lane.</p>

<p>Though French had no doubt that Pyke had
escaped by this route, he dropped out of the
window and crawled over the roof tiles, searching for
traces. These he speedily discovered. Some one
had passed a short time previously.</p>

<p>His chagrin was too deep for words. Even the
lurid phrase with which in times of stress he was
wont to relieve his feelings now proved utterly
inadequate. He was aghast at the extent to which
he had been hoodwinked.</p>

<p>For it was now evident that Pyke had known he
had been shadowed to Hampstead Heath and that
the whole conversation there had been designed to
put him, French, off the track. Pyke was a cleverer
man than he had thought. It seemed scarcely
possible that the interview had been prearranged, and
yet French could not imagine its being an
improvisation. The whole thing was very puzzling.</p>

<p>However, at least one thing was clear. Jefferson
Pyke and Mrs. Berlyn were the criminals for whom
he was seeking. And he was on a hot scent. He
would get Mrs. Berlyn at once, and Pyke with very
little delay. The man had less than twelve hours’
start. He turned to Carter.</p>

<p>“Wait here for me, Carter,” he directed. “Have
a look round and learn anything you can, but
without disturbing things. I shall be back presently.”</p>

<p>He ran out of the house, and calling up his taxi,
was driven to Park Walk. There he soon spotted
the man who was shadowing Mrs. Berlyn.</p>

<p>“Anything to report, Jefferies?” he demanded,
quickly. “She’s still there, all right?”</p>

<p>“Still there, Mr. French. No one left the house
since I came on duty.”</p>

<p>“Good. Then come with me.”</p>

<p>He rang at the door and, when the servant
opened, asked for Mrs. Berlyn.</p>

<p>“She’s not up, sir,” the girl returned. “Last
night she said she had a chill and did not want to be
called or disturbed this morning. She said she
probably wouldn’t want anything until lunch and not to
bring up breakfast, as she was going to take a
sleeping-draught and might not be awake.”</p>

<p>Though still inadequate to relieve his feelings,
French swore his lurid oath.</p>

<p>“Go and wake her now,” he ordered the scandalised
girl. “Here, I’ll go to the door with you.”</p>

<p>The girl seemed about to object, but French’s tone
over-awed her. Hesitatingly she led the way.</p>

<p>“Knock,” said French. “Or wait. I will.” He
gave a rousing knock at the door.</p>

<p>There was no answer.</p>

<p>“She, too, by thunder!” he growled, rattling the
handle. The door was locked.</p>

<p>“Your shoulder, Jefferies!” and for the second
time in half an hour French burst open the door of
a bedroom. As in the former case, the room was
empty.</p>

<p>But here there was no open window. Not only
was the sash latched, but when French opened it and
looked out he found that it was thirty feet above the
pavement and that there was nothing to assist a
descent.</p>

<p>A glance at the door explained the mystery. The
key was missing. Evidently the occupant had left
the room by the door, locking it behind her and
removing the key. And the maid was able to supply
the further information required. The girl, on
coming down that morning, had found the yard door
unlocked. Though she thought she had fastened
it on the previous evening, she had supposed she
must have overlooked it.</p>

<p>French hurried down the narrow yard to the door
which led out on the passage behind the houses,
only to find that here again the door was locked and
the key missing. Again and again he cursed himself
for having underestimated the ability of these two
people. Had he had the slightest idea that they had
followed his progress so minutely, he would have
employed very different methods. Even if he had
not arrested them, he would have seen to it that they
did not escape. The shadowing he had adopted
would have been effective under normal conditions,
but not where the victims were alive to their danger
and ready to make a desperate bid for safety.</p>

<p>But French was too sensible to cry over spilt milk.
He had blundered. Very well, it could not be helped.
What he had to do now was to retrieve his error,
at the earliest moment possible. How could he
most quickly get on the track of these criminals?</p>

<p>He returned to the house and made a rapid search
for any clue that the lady might have left, but
without result. Then leaving Jefferies in charge, he
drove back to Kepple Street.</p>



<h2>Chapter Nineteen: The Bitterness of Death</h2>

<p>“Any luck, Carter?” French asked, quietly, as
he reëntered Pyke’s room.</p>

<p>“No, sir. He has taken a suitcase with him, a
brown leather one of medium size. I got the
description from Mrs. Welsh. She says she noticed
it here yesterday afternoon and it’s gone now. And
he has taken all his outer clothes, his suits and
overcoats and shoes, but most of his socks and
underclothing are here in these drawers. I’ve been
through everything, but I’ve not found anything
useful.”</p>

<p>“Let’s have a look.”</p>

<p>French hastily ran through the missing man’s
effects. “Most of this stuff is foreign,” he
observed, as he glanced over the clothes. “You see
the Argentine marking on the collars and shirts.
No, I don’t think there’s much to help us there. No
books or papers?”</p>

<p>“None, sir. But there’s a big heap of burnt paper
in the grate.”</p>

<p>“So I saw. We’ll go through it later on. Now
ask the landlady to come here. Just sit down, Mrs.
Welsh, will you? I want to know if you can tell
me anything to help me to find your lodger. I’m
sorry to say he is wanted on a very serious
charge—murder, in fact. Therefore, you will understand
how necessary it is that you should tell me all you
know.”</p>

<p>Mrs. Welsh was thunderstruck, declaring again
and again that she would not have believed it of so
nice a gentleman. She was also terrified lest her
rooms should suffer through the inevitable publicity.
But she realised her duty and did her best to answer
French’s questions.</p>

<p>For a long time he gained no useful information,
then at last an important point came out, though
not in connection with his immediate objective.</p>

<p>Having given up for the moment the question of
Pyke’s destination, French was casting around to see
if he could learn anything connecting him with the
crime, when he chanced to ask, had Mr. Pyke a
typewriter?</p>

<p>“Not lately, he hadn’t,” Mrs. Welsh answered,
“but he did have one for a time. I don’t know why
he got it, for I never knew him to use it. But he
had it there on the table for about three weeks.”</p>

<p>“Oh!” said French, interested. “When was
that?”</p>

<p>“I couldn’t say exactly. Three months ago or
more, I should think. But my daughter might
remember. Vera is a typist and she was interested in
the machine more than what I was. I’ll call her, if
you like. She is at home on holidays.”</p>

<p>Vera Welsh was the pretty girl with fair hair and
blue eyes whom French had already seen. She smiled
at him as she appeared in answer to her mother’s
call.</p>

<p>“We were talking of Mr. Pyke’s typewriter,” he
explained. “Can you tell me what make it was?”</p>

<p>“Yes. I noticed it when I was dusting the room.
It was a Corona Four.”</p>

<p>“And when did he get it?”</p>

<p>The girl hesitated. “Between three and four
months ago,” she said at last, with a reserve which
aroused French’s interest.</p>

<p>“Between three and four months?” he repeated.
“How are you so sure of that? Was there
anything to fix it in your mind?”</p>

<p>There was, but for some time the girl would not
give details. Then at last the cause came out.</p>

<p>It seemed that on the day after Vera had first
noticed the machine she had had some extra typing
to do in the office which would have necessitated her
working late. But on that day her mother had not
been well and she had particularly wanted to get
home at her usual time. The thought of Mr. Pyke’s
typewriter occurred to her, together with the fact
that he had left that morning on one of his many
visits to the country. She had thereupon decided to
borrow the machine for the evening. She had
brought her work home and had done it in his
sitting room. She did not remember the actual day,
but could find it from her records in the office.</p>

<p>“Very wise, if you ask me,” French said,
sympathetically. “And what was the nature of the work
you did?” He found it hard to keep the eagerness
out of his voice.</p>

<p>“Just a copy of some tenders we had from
America. I am in a hardware shop in Tottenham
Court Road and it was about American lawnmowers
and other gardening machines.”</p>

<p>“I understand. I suppose you don’t know what
the copies were required for?”</p>

<p>“Just for filing. The originals had to be sent
away, and these were wanted for reference.”</p>

<p>French rose to his feet. Certainly the luck was
not entirely against him.</p>

<p>“Put your hat on, if you please, Miss Welsh, and
come along with me to your office. I must see that
copy. I can’t tell you how much you have helped
me by telling me of it.”</p>

<p>The girl at first demurred, as she feared her
employer might have views of his own as to the taking
of important papers home from the office. But
French assured her that he would see she did not
suffer for her action. In fact, before she knew what
was happening to her she was in a taxi on the way
to the place.</p>

<p>On reaching the senior partner’s office, French
was as good as his word. He explained the
importance of his seeing the typescript, and saying that
Miss Welsh had risked her job in the interests of
justice, begged that the matter might not be held
against her.</p>

<p>Mr. Cooke shook his head over the incident, but,
admitting to French that the girl was satisfactory,
he agreed to overlook it. Then he rang for the
papers in question.</p>

<p>Ten seconds with his lens was enough for French.
Here at last was the proof he had been looking for!
The typing was that of the notes to the Veda works, to
the Swansea garage, and to the magneto company.</p>

<p>“I’m pretty glad to get this paper, Mr. Cooke,”
he declared. “Now do you think you could let me
keep it? Miss Welsh could perhaps type another
copy for you?”</p>

<p>Mr. Cooke was obliging, and in ten minutes the
precious document was handed over. Stopping
only to get the girl to certify on it that she had
made it with Pyke’s machine, French hurried her
away.</p>

<p>“I’ll drive you home, Miss Welsh,” he said, with
his pleasant smile. “You have been of the greatest
help. Now I wonder if you could do something else
for me,” and he began repeating the questions he
had already put to her mother.</p>

<p>Almost at once he got valuable information,
though once again not on the matter immediately at
issue.</p>

<p>It appeared that on the previous afternoon Pyke
had called the girl into his room and asked her if she
would do a small commission for him. It was to
take a letter to a lady in Chelsea. It concerned, so
he said, an appointment to dine that evening, so
that she would see that it was urgent. The matter
was private and she was not to give the note to any
one but the lady herself, nor was she to mention it.
To compensate her for her trouble and to cover the
cost of taxis and so on he hoped she would accept a
ten-shilling note. She had not thought this strange,
as she knew him to be liberal in money matters.
But she had wondered that a note about a dinner
appointment should be so bulky. The envelope was
of foolscap size and must have contained at least a
dozen sheets. She had taken it to the address it
bore and handed it to the lady—Mrs. Berlyn at
70b Park Walk, Chelsea. She had not mentioned
the matter to anyone.</p>

<p>Here was the explanation of the conversation
French had overheard on Hampstead Heath. With
a little thought he was able to follow the man’s
mental processes.</p>

<p>In the first place, it was evident that Pyke had
realised that he was suspected, as well as that
French had opened Ganope’s note. He would
guess, therefore, that French would shadow him
continually until his meeting with Mrs. Berlyn, and
would try to overhear what passed thereat. He
would also see that for that very reason he was
safe from arrest till the meeting had taken place,
when this immunity would cease.</p>

<p>But he wanted the night in which to escape.
How could he stave off arrest until the following
day?</p>

<p>Clearly he had solved his problem by writing out
the conversation, possibly with stage directions, as
a playwright writes out the dialogue in his play. In
it he had pledged himself to a visit to Berlyn on the
morrow. If he could make French swallow the yarn
he knew that arrest would be postponed in order
that French might learn the junior partner’s
whereabouts. He had then sent Mrs. Berlyn her “lines”
and she had learnt them like any other actress.
French ruefully admitted to himself that in spite of
the absence of a rehearsal, the two had presented
their little piece with astonishing conviction.</p>

<p>On reaching the Yard, French’s first care was to
set the great machine of the C.I.D. in operation
against the fugitives. Among his notes he already
had detailed descriptions of each, and he thought
he would be safe in assuming that Pyke would wear
his collar up and his hat pulled low over his eyes.
Mrs. Welsh had described the suitcase, and
burdened by this, French thought there was a
reasonable chance of the man having been noticed.</p>

<p>A number of helpers were soon busy telephoning
the descriptions to all the London police stations as
well as to the ports. Copies were also sent for
insertion in the next number of the <i>Police Gazette</i>. In
a day or so all the police and detectives in the
country would be on the lookout for the couple.</p>

<p>With Mrs. Welsh’s help French made a list of
the clothes likely to be in the suitcase. As these
would have had a considerable weight, he thought
it unlikely that Pyke would have walked very far.
He therefore despatched three sets of men, one to
make enquiries at the adjoining railways and tube
stations, another to comb the neighbouring hotels
and boarding-houses, and the third to search for a
taxi driver who might have picked up such a fare
in one of the near-by streets.</p>

<p>It was not until these urgent matters had been
dealt with that he turned to consider his second line
of enquiry. Of Jefferson Pyke himself he knew
practically nothing. What was the man’s history?
Why was he remaining in England? Particularly,
where had he been at the time of the crime and
while the crate was at Swansea.</p>

<p>He began operations by writing to the Lincoln
police for all available information about Phyllis
Considine, as well as Stanley and Jefferson Pyke.
Then he sent a cable to the Argentine, asking the
authorities there for details about Jefferson. He
wired to the police at San Remo, Grasse, and in
Paris, asking whether the cousins had stayed
during the month of July at the various hotels
Jefferson had mentioned. Lastly he rang up the Bibby
Line offices to know if they could help him to trace
two passengers named Pyke who had sailed from
Liverpool to Marseilles on their <i>Flintshire</i> about
four months previously.</p>

<p>The Bibby people replied that the <i>Flintshire</i> had
been home, but had left again for Rangoon.
However if Mr. French would call at their office they
would show him the passenger list and perhaps give
him other required information.</p>

<p>In an hour French was seated with the manager.
There he inspected the list, which bore the names
of Stanley and Jefferson Pyke, and he was assured
that two gentlemen answering to these names had
actually sailed.</p>

<p>“If that is not sufficient for you, it happens that
you can get further evidence,” the manager went on.
“Mr. Hawkins, the purser of the <i>Flintshire</i>, broke
his arm on the homeward trip. He went off on sick
leave and if you care to go down to Ramsgate you
can see him.”</p>

<p>“I shall be only too glad,” French said.</p>

<p>Armed with an introduction from the manager,
French travelled down next morning to the Isle of
Thanet. Mr. Hawkins was exceedingly polite and
gave him all the information in his power. He
remembered the Pykes having sailed on the last
trip from Birkenhead to Marseilles. Stanley Pyke
he had not come in contact with more than in the
normal way of business, though they had once
chatted for a few moments about the day’s run.
But he had seen a good deal of Jefferson. He, Mr.
Hawkins, had spent a year in the Argentine in
Jefferson’s district and they had found they had
many acquaintances in common. He had formed a
high opinion of Jefferson, both as a man of the world
and as a rancher. Both the cousins had seemed in
every way normal, and several of the passengers
had expressed regret when the two left the ship at
Marseilles.</p>

<p>On reaching London, French drove to the
Houston. Showing his credentials, he asked whether
two gentlemen, a Mr. Stanley and a Mr. Jefferson
Pyke, had stayed there for one night towards the
end of the previous July.</p>

<p>It was not to be expected that the reception clerk
would remember either visitor. But she soon turned
up the register. The names appeared on July 21st,
both having been written by Stanley.</p>

<p>“That’s scarcely good enough for me,” said
French. “It doesn’t prove that they were both
here.”</p>

<p>“Practically it does,” the clerk returned. “You
see, each was allotted a room. If the rooms had not
been occupied the allocation would have been
cancelled, for at that time we were turning people away
every night. But we can soon settle it.” She
looked up her account books. “Here,” she went on
after a moment, “are the accounts in question. Mr.
Stanley occupied Number Three Forty-six and Mr.
Jefferson Number Three Fifty-one. The accounts
were paid separately. I receipted Mr. Stanley’s,
and Miss Hurst, another of our staff, receipted Mr.
Jefferson’s. Curiously,” she went on, “I remember
Mr. Stanley paying. He broke the basin in his room
and we had some discussion as to whether he would
be charged for it. He was, in the end.”</p>

<p>This would have seemed ample confirmation of
Jefferson’s statement to most people, but French,
with his passion for thoroughness, decided to see the
chambermaid. She remembered the incident and
remembered also that the gentleman’s friend had
occupied No. 351, as on her bringing his hot water
in answering to his ring, he had said he was late and
would she go and wake his friend in No. 351. She
had done as requested, but the friend was already
up.</p>

<p>From the Houston, French walked to Kettle
Street. Yes, Mr. Jefferson had taken the rooms on
the 22nd July last, and though he had been
frequently away for a day or two at a time, he had
lived there ever since. Moreover, Mrs. Welsh’s
records enabled her to say that he had been absent
not only on the night of the crime, but also on the
date when the crate was disposed of at Swansea.</p>

<p>On his return to the Yard, French found that
replies had come in from Paris and the Riviera.
Stanley and Jefferson Pyke had stayed at the three
hotels in question.</p>

<p>The next post brought a letter from the Lincoln
police. It appeared that the three young people
about whom enquiries had been made had lived in
the district at the time mentioned. Dr. Considine
was a well-known practitioner in the town until
his death in 1912, but little was known of his
daughter Phyllis save the mere fact of her existence.
Stanley and Jefferson Pyke had lived with a relative
in the suburbs and had attended a private school
kept by a Dr. Oates. The relations between the
girl and boys were not known, but it was probable
that they had met, as they were in the same social
set. More could probably be learned by further
enquiries.</p>

<p>This seemed to French sufficient to corroborate
the statements of Jefferson Pyke and Mrs. Berlyn,
and he advised the Lincoln police not to trouble
further in the matter.</p>

<p>He had scarcely written his note when a cable
from the Argentine police was handed to him.
Jefferson Pyke was well known as the owner of
an <i lang="es">estancia</i> in the Rosario district. He was believed to
be comfortably off, though not wealthy. He
answered the description given in the wire from
Scotland Yard and had left for England on the boat
mentioned.</p>

<p>With the exception of the fact that Jefferson was
away from his rooms at the time of the crime, all
this was disappointing to French. So far he had
learned little to help in the building up of his case.
On the contrary, the tendency was in Jefferson Pyke’s
favour. He did not appear to be of the stuff of
which murderers are made. Nor, from the purser’s
description, did it seem likely that he was hatching
a crime while on the <i>Flintshire</i>. On the other hand,
there was no knowing what even the mildest man
might do under the stress of passion.</p>

<p>But what really worried French was the fact that
he had made no progress towards the tracing of his
suspects’ present whereabouts. In vain he urged
his men on to more intensive efforts. Nowhere
could they learn anything to help.</p>

<p>But he realised that there was nothing for it but
patience. The business was necessarily slow, as it
meant individual enquiries from everyone concerned.
French did not dare to advertise, lest Pyke should
see the notice and take still further precautions
against discovery.</p>

<p>The third day passed and the fourth, French
growing more restless every hour. He now began
to consider publicity—broadcast descriptions,
advertisements in the papers, even the offer of a
reward for secret information. Finally he decided
that if by the following evening no news had come
in, he would put these agencies in operation.</p>

<p>But the men of the C.I.D. are marvellously
efficient and persistent. On returning from lunch
on the fifth day, French learned, to his infinite
satisfaction, that a taximan whose information might
prove valuable had been found and was on his way
to the Yard. Ten minutes later an intelligent-looking
man in a driver’s uniform was shown in.</p>

<p>“Good afternoon,” said French. “You have
something to tell me? Just let me have your name
and address and then go ahead.”</p>

<p>William Service explained that he was the driver
of a taxi in the employment of Metropolitan
Transport, Ltd. On Monday night, the night in question,
he had driven a fare to Euston for the 12.25
express. On leaving the station he was returning
through Russell Square to his garage when, near
the end of Kepple Street, he was hailed by a man
from the sidewalk. He had not wished to take
another fare, but the man had offered him an extra
five shillings to do so and he had then agreed. The
man was of medium height and build and dressed in
a fawn coat and soft hat. Service could not describe
his features, the brim of his hat being pulled low to
meet his upturned collar. He was carrying a
largeish suitcase.</p>

<p>He desired Service to drive to The Boltons,
which, the Inspector probably knew, was an oval
with a church not far from Chelsea. (The
Inspector knew it and recognised with delight that it
was just beside Park Walk). There he was to pick
up a lady and to drive them both to a house in
Victory Place, not far from the Elephant and Castle.
The lady had been waiting. As far as he could see,
she answered the Inspector’s description. He had
driven both parties to the address mentioned. It
was a big house of working-class flats.</p>

<p>“Good! You’ve told your story well,” French
approved. “Now I want you to drive me to the
place. I shall be ready in a moment.”</p>

<p>The last lap! A kind of cold excitement took
possession of French. It had been a long and
troublesome case, but it was over now. Another fine
feather in his cap; another step to that somewhat
overdue chief-inspectorship for which he had been
so long hoping! A few minutes, an hour at most,
and the thing would be an accomplished fact.</p>

<p>Hastily calling his two assistants, Carter and
Harvey, he set off with them for Victory Place. “It’s
a big thing, this,” he explained. “There must be
no mistake about it. If we let these people slip
through our fingers we needn’t go back to the Yard.”</p>

<p>They drove to the end of the block containing the
house, and, Carter and Harvey remaining in the
taxi, French went alone to reconnoitre. He rang at
a door in the basement and asked the woman who
opened if she could direct him to the caretaker.</p>

<p>“My husband’s the caretaker, sir,” she answered,
“but he’s out at present. Is it anything I can do?”</p>

<p>“Probably you can,” said French, with his most
winning smile. “I’m looking for the lady and
gentleman who came in on last Monday night. They
arrived by a late train and weren’t here till after
midnight.”</p>

<p>“Oh yes. Mr. and Mrs. Perrin?”</p>

<p>“That’s right. Which flat have they taken?”</p>

<p>“Number Nineteen. That’s the top one on the
right of the stairs.”</p>

<p>“Thank you. Do you know if they are in at
present?”</p>

<p>“Mrs. Perrin is out. I saw her go about half an
hour ago. So far as I know, Mr. Perrin is in.”</p>

<p>“Thanks. I’ll just go up and see.”</p>

<p>French returned to the taxi.</p>

<p>“The woman is out, but Pyke is supposed to be
upstairs in Number Nineteen flat. You, Harvey,
will stay in the entrance hall and watch the stairs
and lift. Take him without fail if we miss him
above. If the woman appears, don’t show up, but
let her go in. Carter, you come upstairs with me.”</p>

<p>Harvey strolled to the door and became immersed
in the list of flat-holders, while French and Carter
began to climb the stairs. There were two flats on
each storey, to right and left of the flights. When
they reached the first landing French pointed to a
fire-escape notice. They followed the pointing
hand to the back of the house along a passage
between the two flats, and, silently pushing open a
door fitted with panic fastenings, saw an iron
staircase leading down outside of the wall from the
top storey to a paved yard.</p>

<p>“You’ll have to stay and watch that, Carter. I
can manage the blighter upstairs.”</p>

<p>For a moment French wished he had brought
another man. Then he thought of how many times
he had carried out arrests single-handed. There
was no difficulty. A whistle would bring his two
men at top speed, and if by some incredibly unlikely
accident he let Pyke slip through his hands, one or
other of them would certainly take him on his way
down.</p>

<p>He silently mounted the stairs to the tenth storey.
No. Nineteen was the top flat, but the stairs led on
to a door on to the roof. French knocked at No.
Nineteen. There was no answer. In a moment
he knocked again, then after waiting a few seconds,
he turned the handle.</p>

<p>The door was unlocked and French pushed it
open and looked in. Through a tiny hall he could
see into a living room, small and poorly furnished,
and with a kitchenette in the rear. Other partially
open doors from the hall led into bedrooms. So
far as he could see, the place was deserted.</p>

<p>Softly closing the outer door, he passed into the
living room, and standing in its centre, looked round.
Opposite him was the fireplace with a gas fire turned
low. In the right wall was the window and against
the left stood a table with a chair at each end. Two
wicker armchairs were drawn up to the fireplace,
and to the right of the door was a dresser
containing crockery. Some books lay on the floor in a
corner, but the centre of the room was clear of
furniture.</p>

<p>French could see everything in the room with one
exception. At the side of the fireplace was a closed
cupboard. Possibly this might contain something
useful.</p>

<p>He had stepped across the room and put his
hand on the cupboard door knob, when the feel of
a presence, rather than an actual sound, caused him
to swing suddenly round. A man had entered and
was watching him.</p>

<p>French stared in his turn. This was not Pyke.
This was a smaller man and hollow of cheek, dark
in colouring, and with a pair of keen eyes
uncovered by glasses. A friend of Pyke’s, no doubt.</p>

<p>But this man was vaguely familiar. That he had
seen him at no distant time French felt certain.
Then the man moved slightly and French noticed
the marks of <i lang="fr">pince-nez</i> on his nose. As he did so
he remembered where he had seen, not him, but
his photograph, and he stared spellbound in
speechless amazement.</p>

<p>For a moment neither moved, then French
recovered himself. With a step forward he cried,
“Stanley Pyke, I arrest you on a charge of——”</p>

<p>He stopped. Had he gone mad? Wasn’t the
dead man Stanley Pyke? How could he be charged
with murdering himself?</p>

<p>French felt his brain reel. But he grew more and
more convinced that the man was indeed Stanley
Pyke. Therefore the victim must have been—of
course!—Berlyn. How the whole thing had
happened French could not form an idea, but he saw
that this could be straightened out later. For the
moment his course was clear. He must arrest this
man.</p>

<p>Though these thoughts flashed through French’s
mind at lightning speed, in his extremity of surprise
he remained for a moment speechless, his eyes fixed
on the other’s face. Then a slight movement of
the man’s right arm attracted his attention and he
glanced downwards. Pyke had taken an automatic
pistol from his coat pocket and was holding it
steadily pointed at French’s heart.</p>

<p>“No, Mr. French,” he said, quietly, “I don’t
think so. You’ve not got me, but I’ve got you. Put
up your hands.”</p>

<p>As he slowly obeyed, French saw that he was in
imminent danger of his life. Pyke’s features were
set in an expression of ruthless determination and
there was murder in his eyes. He went on speaking
in quiet, grim tones.</p>

<p>“It’s true that I may not get away with it, but
I’m going to have a try. You won’t, anyway. I
suppose you have men posted below?”</p>

<p>“I’ve men coming up the stairs after me,” French
lied.</p>

<p>“That so? They’re not hurrying. I shall have
plenty of time before they get to the top. I’m
going to shoot you now, Mr. Joseph French. The
upper part of this building is deserted; no one
across the way and only a couple of old women on
the floor below. The rest are all out at work. I
shall be across the roof and down the next stairs
before your men are halfway up these. I may carry
it off and I may not, but I’ll not be taken alive.”</p>

<p>“And Mrs. Berlyn?”</p>

<p>Pyke’s eyes flashed.</p>

<p>“They’ll not get her, either. I know where she
is and I’ll pick her up. Say your prayers, Mr.
French. You’ve only got seconds to live.”</p>

<p>He slowly raised the pistol from the level of his
side pocket to that of his eyes, keeping it first
directed to French’s heart and then to his head. In
those few moments French tasted the bitterness of
death. He knew instinctively that the man meant to
carry out his threat and he was powerless to
prevent him. Covered by Pyke’s steady gaze as well
as by his pistol, no sudden spring would help him.
They were only about five feet apart, but the man
would fire before he could reach across half the
distance. Carter and Harvey were at the bottom
of a hundred feet of stairs. They wouldn’t even
hear the shot. A numbing fear crept into French’s
heart, while thoughts of his wife and visions of
scenes in his past life floated before his mind’s eye.
And all the time he was desperately, despairingly
racking his brains to find a way of escape.</p>

<p>An instinctive urge that he must gain time at all
costs took possession of him. Then, as he was
trying to evolve some further bluff, an idea shot into
his mind which suggested a glimmering of hope. It
was a terribly faint glimmering; the chances were
a thousand to one against him. Almost a forlorn
hope, but it was all he could think of.</p>

<p>Neither man had moved during the interview.
French had swung round from the cupboard and was
still facing the door through which the other had
entered. Pyke on his part had his back to the door
and was facing the cupboard.</p>

<p>French instantly began to act a part. First he
wished to show fear. Here he had not to act—the
emotion was only too genuine. Indeed, had he let
himself go he would have been paralysed with
terror. Therefore, as he spoke his eyes were
agonised, his features distorted, and his voice thick and
trembling.</p>

<p>“Don’t be a fool, Pyke. You can do better than
that. I’ve sense enough to know when I’m beaten.
My life’s of more value to me than success in a
case. You want your liberty and I want my life.
I see a way in which we can each get what we want.”</p>

<p>Pyke did not relax his attitude.</p>

<p>“I believe you’re a damned liar,” he said, only
with a stronger adjective. “However, shove ahead
with your plan. And any tricks or movements and
you’re a dead man.”</p>

<p>“If you were once clear of me,” French went on,
evincing the most transparent evidences of terror,
“you could walk out of the building past my men
and they’d never suspect you. They’re here to look
for a quite different man. And the mere fact that
you walked quietly downstairs after I had gone up
to look for Jefferson would show that you were
not the man I was after. That all right so far?”</p>

<p>“Well?”</p>

<p>French allowed his eyes to roam over the room,
but without making any change in his expression.
After the briefest pause he went on:</p>

<p>“Now to get away from me is the difficulty, for
while I should be willing to give you my oath not to
interfere, I don’t suppose you would accept it. Well,
this is my plan.”</p>

<p>Calling all his histrionic powers to his aid, French
again glanced round the room, suddenly staying his
gaze on the door. Then with the whole strength
of his will he pretended to himself that he saw
Carter entering. On this he fixed his mind, with
the result that his eyes took on the appearance of
definitely looking at something, while an expression
of the utmost thankfulness and relief showed on
his features. But he was quick to add the idea
that Pyke must not follow what was in his mind, and
he at once looked away and back to Pyke’s face.
With a fine effect of recovering a line of thought
which had been disturbed, he continued, now trying
to give the impression of faked fear.</p>

<p>“I propose that I withdraw to the kitchenette
and there gag myself and tie myself up to your
satisfaction. You, of course, would keep me
covered all the time and it would be quite impossible
for me to play you any trick. Or, if you preferred
it, I could do the tying up in this room.”</p>

<p>Again he glanced at the door as if he could not
keep his eyes off it. This time he slowly shifted the
point at which he was looking to just behind Pyke,
while he allowed relief and satisfaction to grow
on his face. Once more he hurriedly withdrew his
gaze and looked at Pyke.</p>

<p>“I noticed a clothes line in the kitchenette which
would do,” he went on, but now absent-mindedly,
and giving quick, as if involuntary, glances behind
Pyke. “If you agree, I’ll back in there and get it
down. If I attempt to play you false you can
shoot.”</p>

<p>He paused, and looking directly behind Pyke,
allowed a slight triumphant smile to appear on his
lips.</p>

<p>Pyke had obviously followed the direction of his
glances and he had been getting more and more
uneasy. At French’s smile he could stand it no
longer. For the tenth of a second he glanced
behind him. And at that moment, French, standing
braced and ready, sprang. Like lightning he
dropped his head while his left fist struck the other’s
right wrist upwards.</p>

<p>Instantly Pyke fired and a hot iron seemed to
sear the crown of French’s head. But he was not
disabled. Seizing Pyke’s right wrist with his left
hand, he drove with his right for the man’s chin.</p>

<p>But Pyke ducked and he missed. Then the two
men, clinching with their free hands, began a
voiceless struggle for their lives. Pyke’s desperate
efforts were to turn the pistol inwards, French’s to
prevent him. Locked together, they swayed
backwards and forwards. Then French tripped over
a chair and they swung with a crash against the
table. It gave way, and staggering across its
wreckage, they fell. French found himself
underneath and redoubled his efforts, but he was
hampered by the blood from his wound, which ran
down and blinded one of his eyes. Fortunately, he
was the stronger man, and in spite of his handicap,
slowly his strength and weight began to tell.
Gradually he forced Pyke’s arm round until the
other had to roll over on his back to save its
dislocation.</p>

<p>Both men were now gasping and sobbing from
want of breath. But French with a superhuman
effort dropped Pyke’s left arm, and seizing his
collar, twisted it tight. Pyke laid out with his free arm,
but he was weakening, and French, spent and giddy,
but thankful, felt he could hold on in spite of the
blows, and that the affair was now only a matter
of time.</p>

<p>And then, lying grimly clinging to the choking
man’s collar, he felt a real thrill of delight as he
saw the door slowly open, just as he had pictured it.
Carter at last! It was over.</p>

<p>But it was not Carter who appeared. There,
gazing down on them, with amazement printed on her
features, was Mrs. Berlyn.</p>

<p>It did not take her long to appreciate the
situation, and with a muffled scream she threw herself
on the heaving mass.</p>

<p>“Give me the pistol, Stanley,” she cried, softly.
“I’ll settle him.”</p>

<p>But Pyke was beyond coherent thought. Half
insensible, he still kept his hand locked and she
could not release the fingers. French, seeing the
end, put all his remaining strength into a shrill cry
of “Help!” before he felt the woman’s fingers
tighten round his throat.</p>

<p>Letting go of the now unconscious Pyke, he tried
desperately to loosen their clinging grip. But he
was too weak. Choking, he struggled impotently,
while gradually it grew darker, and he sank slowly
into a roaring abyss of nothingness.</p>



<h2>Chapter Twenty: Conclusion</h2>

<p>When French struggled back into consciousness
he found himself lying on the floor of that upper
room with Sergeant Carter bending solicitously over
him.</p>

<p>“He’s coming to,” he heard him say as if from
a great distance. “He’ll be none the worse in a
few minutes.”</p>

<p>“I’m all right,” French whispered, faintly. “What
about——”</p>

<p>“Both safe as a house,” Carter answered. “I
thought you were taking too long over the job and
was coming up the fire escape when I heard you
shout. Lucky I got up in time. But it was a near
thing, Mr. French; just as near a thing as I should
like to see. Don’t you be in any hurry. You’ve
all the day before you. Take a nip of this brandy
that Harvey has brought.”</p>

<p>The stimulant made French once again feel his
own man, and he sat up to find that his assailants
had been safely handcuffed. Mrs. Berlyn sat in one
of the wicker armchairs, deadly pale and with an
expression of murderous hate in her eyes. Pyke
was still unconscious, and the others at once turned
their attention to him, with the result that presently
he, too, revived. The taxi was waiting and before
many minutes had passed both prisoners were lodged
in the cells.</p>

<p>When French sat down in his own room to think
over this unexpected development he very soon saw
that he had made a terrible error in his handling of
the case. Never before had he blundered so
inexcusably! The clue to the truth was there in his
hand and he had missed it. Though even now he
could not understand all that had happened, he saw
enough to appreciate his mistake, to locate the point
at which he had strayed from the right path.</p>

<p>He had accepted the identification of the remains,
but on whose testimony? On that of the criminals,
Mrs. Berlyn and the man whom he had thought was
Jefferson Pyke. Of course at the time at which he
interviewed them he had no idea of their connection
with the crime, and therefore no reason to doubt
their statements, but his error came in just here:
that by the time he began to suspect them the
identification was so firmly fixed in his mind that he
overlooked the fact that it depended on them. If he had
remembered that supremely important point he
would have questioned the dead man’s identity. This
would have led him to investigate, even more closely
than he had, the movements of the Pykes and no
doubt he would have thus discovered the
impersonation which had been carried out.</p>

<p>The first question, then, which demanded solution
was: If the man whom he had thought was Jefferson
Pyke was really his cousin, where was Jefferson
himself?</p>

<p>Like a man in a dream French went back to
Kepple Street. Was Mrs. Welsh <em>absolutely</em> sure
that the Mr. Pyke who had engaged her rooms on
the 22nd of July was the same man who had
occupied them ever since? Mrs. Welsh, when at last
she had been made to understand the question, was
absolutely sure.</p>

<p>If she were right, Stanley’s impersonation of
Jefferson must have begun on that 22nd of July. They
had both been at the Houston in the morning. By
the evening Jefferson, the real Jefferson, apparently
had vanished.</p>

<p>Then suddenly French remembered the episode of
the broken basin. It had not occurred to him
before, but now he wondered if there was not more
here than met the eye. The accident was unlikely.
Had the basin been deliberately broken to help on
some trick?</p>

<p>He went back to the Houston and once again
interviewed the reception clerk. But she could add
nothing to her former statement. Then he
reëxamined the chambermaid. From her at last he
obtained a new fact, an apparently trifling fact, but
what a difference it made in his conclusion!</p>

<p>The girl had stated that the gentleman who
broke the basin had told her that he had overslept
himself and had asked her to see that his friend
in No. 351 was awake. She had gone and found
that the friend was already up. Now French
learned that by “up” she had meant that the man
was up and dressed and had left his room.</p>

<p>At this a light shone into French’s mind. He
retired to a corner of the smoking room, and after
half an hour’s hard thinking he reached a detailed
solution.</p>

<p>He saw that it would be possible for Stanley to
arrive at the hotel and engage two rooms, ostensibly
for himself and his cousin. He would go to his
own room after explaining that his cousin would
arrive later in the day. After impressing his
personality on the staff, he would go out, make up as
Jefferson, return with more luggage, and occupy
the second room which had been engaged. He would
sleep in Jefferson’s room, and in the morning ring
early for shaving-water, get up, dress, take his
luggage down, pay his bill, and leave the hotel. Then
hurrying back, he would slip into his own room
unobserved, go to bed, and ring again for hot water,
giving the maid the message about his friend. Lest
the incident should be forgotten in the event of
future enquiries, he would smash the basin, thus
impressing his identity on all concerned.</p>

<p>That this was what Stanley had done, French was
now pretty sure, and he despatched wires to the
French and Italian police asking if the same trick
had been carried out in Paris and at Grasse and San
Remo. After some time there were replies. It had
been carried out in Paris, but not at the other two
places. At the latter there was no doubt that both
men had been present.</p>

<p>Jefferson Pyke had, therefore, disappeared at
some point between Grasse and Paris, and French
soon saw that there was nothing for it but to go to
the Riviera and himself enquire into the men’s
movements. Accordingly, after consultation with his
chief he obtained a letter to the French police, and
travelling to Marseilles, began work. Slowly and
painfully he traced the two from Marseilles to San
Remo, to Monte Carlo, to Grasse, and finally to
Nice. And there in the pleasure city, on the shores
of the Mediterranean, he came on the explanation
he sought.</p>

<p>For at Nice, Jefferson Pyke had died. At first,
knowing what he did, French had suspected foul
play. But in this he found he was mistaken.
Jefferson had been taken ill at his hotel and had at once
been moved to a hospital. There he had been
operated on for appendicitis. French saw the doctor
who had had charge of the case and learned the
details. There had been complications and the
operation could not save him.</p>

<p>French was deeply chagrined at his failure to
learn so essential a fact at an earlier stage in his
investigation. He swore great oaths to his gods
that never, <em>never</em> again should he fail to follow up
to the very end every clue which presented itself,
whether he thought it likely to prove valuable or
not.</p>

<p>With identity of murderer and victim established,
a comparatively short further enquiry sufficed to
clear up the details of the affair which were still in
doubt. And dreadful reading they made.</p>

<p>It seemed that soon after Phyllis Considine came
to Ashburton as the bride of Charles Berlyn she
found she had made a terrible mistake in her
marriage. The feeling which she had imagined was
love died away, and she saw herself tied for life to
a man whom she disliked. A mutual coldness
inevitably resulted, which rapidly widened as the
husband also found himself disillusioned. On Phyllis’s
side less than a year sufficed to turn it into a bitter
hatred.</p>

<p>Under these miserable circumstances she began
to look elsewhere for companionship, and Stanley
Pyke, who found himself strongly attracted to his
former playmate, was only too ready to fill the
breach. They saw a good deal of each other and
the inevitable happened. Before long both were
deeply in love.</p>

<p>Though they were careful to act discreetly when
under observation, they were not careful enough,
and Berlyn became aware of what was going on.
He at once remonstrated with his wife, finally
telling her in no ambiguous terms that if given cause
he would not hesitate to divorce her. If this had
been all, Phyllis would no doubt have eagerly seized
so complete a solution of her difficulty, but both she
and Pyke saw that it was by no means all. Berlyn,
as joint owner of the business, would certainly have
dismissed Pyke as well as cut Phyllis out of his
will. The couple would, therefore, have been
without money or prospects. This she was not prepared
for, and while admitting unwise behaviour, she
denied that there was anything serious in her relations
with Pyke and undertook that Berlyn should have
no further cause of complaint. Then she began to
meet Pyke secretly, and gradually the terrible
solution which they afterwards adopted grew
subconsciously in both their minds. If Berlyn should die,
the whole situation would be straightened out.</p>

<p>From that time, the idea of murder was never
far from the thoughts of either. But they could
see no way in which the dreadful deed could be
safely accomplished. Pyke, however, was sufficiently
callous and far-seeing to suggest the flirtation with
Domlio, partly as a proof that the lady’s feeling for
himself was a thing of the past, and partly lest a
scapegoat should afterwards be wanted in
connection with the murder.</p>

<p>Then came Jefferson’s visit and the cousins’
holiday and Jefferson’s unexpected death. Pyke was
about to give up the tour and come home when it
suddenly struck him that here was the solution for
which he and Phyllis had been looking. He travelled
up to Paris and there spent a few days in working
out his plan.</p>

<p>The idea of diverting suspicion from the murder
of Berlyn by staging the accident on the moor had
already occurred to him. But this plan had the
objection that it involved his own disappearance as
well as Berlyn’s. If, however, he disappeared, the
whole fruits of the murder would be lost, as he was
committing it simply to enable him to marry Phyllis.
Jefferson’s death showed him how he might escape
this dilemma.</p>

<p>He would, in brief, murder Berlyn, stage the
accident on the moor, and disappear—as Stanley Pyke.
He would immediately reappear—as Jefferson. By
impersonating Jefferson he could marry Phyllis and
get all his cousin’s money as well.</p>

<p>In this scheme there was a risk, of course, but the
chances of anyone learning of Jefferson’s death were,
he thought, sufficiently remote to make the scheme
practicable. As soon as he could, without suspicion,
he would go abroad, where Phyllis could presently
follow him.</p>

<p>At first the plan seemed full of snags, but as he
thought over it, he saw ways of overcoming one
difficulty after another, until the whole ghastly affair
grew coherent and feasible. When he returned to
Ashburton the scheme was cut and dry and he had
only to get Phyllis’s approval and promise of help.</p>

<p>Jefferson, the real Jefferson, had already visited
Ashburton, but he had only been seen closely by the
landlady, Mrs. Billing, the Berlyns and their
servants, Domlio, and one or two others. Of these the
only one Stanley need interview was Mrs. Billing,
and he felt sure he could deceive her. Sergeant
Daw, with whom in his enquiries about the tragedy
he would have most to do, had only seen Jefferson
in the distance. Personation would, therefore, be
possible.</p>

<p>The first thing necessary was to prove Jefferson
still alive. Stanley found it easier than he had
expected. From a theatrical supplies shop he
bought shoes with false internal heels to increase
his height, padded underclothes to give him the
necessary girth, rubber discs to wear inside his
cheeks to alter the shape of his face, and glasses.
When in addition to these he wore Jefferson’s
clothes and copied as best he could Jefferson’s walk,
speech, and deportment, it was not surprising that
the unsuspecting and unobservant persons at
Ashburton should be taken in.</p>

<p>On his way home he carried out the tricks at the
hotels, then taking the room in Kepple Street. For
some hectic weeks he managed to live at Kepple
Street as Jefferson and at Ashburton as Stanley.
His continual absences from Ashburton, travelling
for his firm, enabled him to put in the necessary
appearances in Kepple Street, where he gave out that
in the intervals he was making business trips in
England and France.</p>

<p>He saw that by a judicious interview with the
clerk of the Tavistock Urban District Council he
could arrange for the evening journey across the
moor. His first idea had been to dispose of Berlyn’s
body on the way back by throwing it into one of the
small mires close to the road. But when he considered
this in detail he realised that the difficulties
were overwhelming, just as had been suggested to
French by Sergeant Daw. He therefore devised the
episode of the duplicator in order to provide a
means for the removal of the remains. He knew
the Burry Inlet, and the date of a suitable tide
became the foundation on which the rest of the plan
was built.</p>

<p>In London he bought the second-hand typewriter
and wrote the letters ordering the duplicator and
crane lorry on paper he had obtained from the
L. M. S. hotels. These letters he handed to the
tobacconist, Ganope, who for a consideration
undertook to post them on the proper dates. Neither
he nor Phyllis was, therefore, in London when they
were sent out, though he called in person at the
hotels for the replies. He similarly obtained the
duplicate magneto. This he handed to Phyllis and
she damaged it and ran it on the car until it gave
up, then replacing the original.</p>

<p>On the fatal night every movement of each
conspirator was carefully timed and cut and dry to the
last detail. When near the works on the return
journey Stanley called out to Berlyn to stop, saying
that he had seen a man lying on the road. He
jumped out and ran round the car, and on Berlyn
following him he slipped behind his victim and
sandbagged him. Hastily throwing the body into the
car, he drove to the works gate. There he was met
by Phyllis, who had already drugged Gurney’s tea
in the way French had surmised.</p>

<p>At the works Phyllis helped Pyke to carry the
body to the packing-shed. After replacing Gurney’s
drugged tea with fresh, she put her bicycle in the
tonneau of the car and drove out to the selected spot
on the moor. She changed the magneto and made
the two lines of footmarks by putting on shoes of
Berlyn’s which she had brought for the purpose.
Then mounting her bicycle, she returned to the
works. The bicycle and the magneto she hid in a
clump of shrubs, waiting until Pyke came out to say
that the ghastly job in the works was complete. She
then went home, silently let herself in, replaced
Berlyn’s shoes in his room, changed her clothes, wakened
the maid and called up Sergeant Daw.</p>

<p>In the meantime Stanley Pyke rode on the bicycle
to Colonel Domlio’s, dropped the clothes and other
objects into the well, and continued on his way to
Plymouth. There he left the bicycle in a dark entry
in the lower part of the town, where he was sure it
would speedily be found and annexed. He took the
first train to London, returning to Ashburton in the
character of Jefferson on receipt of Daw’s wire
about the tragedy.</p>

<p>Such was the plan, and, had the conspirators been
sure their actions would have remained unquestioned,
they would have stopped there. But both were afraid
that in some unforeseen way suspicion might be
aroused and they took several other steps in the
hope of turning such possible suspicion on to other
persons.</p>

<p>First they considered it necessary that, should the
crate be discovered, the body therein should be taken
as Stanley Pyke’s. This would effectually prevent a
doubt arising as to Jefferson’s identity. Pyke,
therefore, changed his own underclothes with those of the
dead man and dropped his own suit down the well,
while both he and Phyllis stated that the birthmark
on Berlyn’s arm was really on Pyke’s.</p>

<p>To carry on the same deception, Pyke decided to
make up as Berlyn while disposing of the crate.
In height and build he was, in his disguise, not
unlike Berlyn. The chief difference between them
was their colouring, both the Pykes being dark and
Berlyn fair. Stanley therefore dyed his hair and
lightened his complexion before going to Wales.</p>

<p>The episode of the blackmailing letter was
designed with a similar object. Phyllis Berlyn had
staged the farce of the twisted ankle. She had
fallen into Domlio’s arms in such a way that a
photograph might have really been a profitable
investment to a blackmailer. Pyke had, of course,
forged the letter. The confederates hoped that the
taking out of the car which they believed would
result, together with the finding of the articles in the
well, which they thought a competent detective
might achieve, would throw the suspicion on Domlio.</p>

<p>With regard to money, Pyke had resolved on a
bold stroke. French found that he had instructed a
firm of solicitors in London to get in touch with
Jefferson’s lawyers in the Argentine for the purpose
of arranging the sale of Jefferson’s property there.
He had forged Jefferson’s signature to the necessary
documents, and the matter was well advanced.</p>

<p>This piece of greed had prevented Stanley from
leaving London and had caused him to rent the
Victory Place flat as a refuge in case Kepple Street
got too hot to hold him. Flight thither under such
circumstances had been decided on, and, therefore,
when danger threatened, only the time and method
of reaching it remained to be settled.</p>

<p>As all Berlyn’s property went to Phyllis under the
deceased’s will, she also would have been well off, so
that when the two took up their abode in a rather
out-of-the-way part of Algeria, as they had intended,
they would have been comparatively rich.</p>

<p>But thanks to Evan Morgan’s desire for a fishing
expedition on the last day of his holidays, together
with Inspector French’s steady pegging away at a
puzzling and wearisome case, these evil hopes were
frustrated. Some three weeks after the next assizes,
both Stanley Pyke and Phyllis Berlyn paid for their
crime with their lives, leaving the ownership of
Jefferson’s money as a juicy morsel on which the
lawyers of England and the Argentine could pile up
fees to their hearts’ content.</p>

<p>For French the case had not been an unmixed
triumph. Though in the end he had taken the
criminals and added to his reputation with his
superiors, in his heart of hearts he knew that he had
been saved by the skin of his teeth alone and that
he had had a lesson in the danger of neglecting to
follow up unlikely clues to the very end which would
last him for his life. But on the whole he was
satisfied.</p>
