<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>VIII</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-8" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h2 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">VIII</h2>
				<p epub:type="title">A Fresh Start</p>
			</hgroup>
			<p>It is wonderful what an effect a good night’s sleep and a bright morning will have on the mind of a healthy man. French had gone to bed tired and worried about this case. He woke cheery and optimistic, philosophic as to his reverses, and hopeful for the future.</p>
			<p>On such a morning, indeed, it was impossible that anyone could be despondent. Though <time datetime="1927-10">October</time> had begun, the sun shone with a thin brilliancy reminiscent of early summer. The air, floating up gently from the garden in the rear of the hotel, was surprisingly warm and aromatic for the time of year. Birds were singing in the trees and there was a faint hum of insects from below. As he looked out of his window French felt that life was good and that to squander it in sleep was little better than a sin.</p>
			<p>He breakfasted at his leisure, then lighting his pipe, he sauntered out into the little town to take what he called “a turn” before settling down to the serious work of the day.</p>
			<p>Though his conclusions of the previous evening still seemed incontrovertible, he was surprised to find that his sense of disappointment had vanished. At first he thought this was due simply to his night’s rest, then gradually he realised the reason.</p>
			<p>In his heart of hearts he distrusted these conclusions. In spite of the difficulties involved, he was not satisfied that the Berlyn-Pyke affair should be eliminated from the case.</p>
			<p>The murderer had shown himself an extremely ingenious man. Could it not be that these seeming impossibilities were really intentionally designed to throw investigating detectives off the scent?</p>
			<p>French reconsidered the strength of the coincidences otherwise involved.</p>
			<p>A disappearance at a certain time and place was required to account for the body in the crate. At that very time and place, and there only, a disappearance was known to have occurred. French could not bring himself to dismiss the possibility of a connection between the two facts.</p>
			<p>He decided that he had not exhausted the possibilities. He must learn more about Berlyn and Pyke.</p>
			<p>For preliminary enquiries Sergeant Daw seemed the most hopeful source of information, and he lost no time in walking down to the police station and asking his help.</p>
			<p>“I want to know who everybody is, Sergeant. You know the local people and you might tell me something which would give me the hint I am looking for.”</p>
			<p>The sergeant did not think this likely, but he was willing to do anything to oblige.</p>
			<p>“Very good. Then I’ll ask questions. First of all, will you tell me what you can about <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Berlyn?”</p>
			<p>Daw put on his best police-court manner and proceeded to deliver himself.</p>
			<p>“<abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Berlyn was junior partner at the works. I understand that some eight or nine years ago he and Colonel Domlio bought up nearly the whole of the stock between them. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Berlyn dealt with the commercial side and attended the office every day as if he was an official, but the colonel looked on the business as a hobby. He acted as a sort of consulting engineer and only went to the works when it pleased him. I believe there are other directors, but in practice they don’t amount to anything.”</p>
			<p>“Was <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Berlyn liked?”</p>
			<p>“As a matter of fact, sir, he wasn’t altogether popular among the work people. From what I’ve heard, he wanted too much and he wouldn’t make allowances for people making mistakes. It was get on or get out with him, and you know yourself, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> French, that if that’s pushed too far it doesn’t always work. But he was straight enough and what he said he stuck to.”</p>
			<p>“A man like that would make enemies. Do you know of anyone he was on bad terms with?”</p>
			<p>“No, sir. No one.”</p>
			<p>“He hadn’t his knife in <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Pyke, for instance?”</p>
			<p>“Not to my knowledge.”</p>
			<p>“Was <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Berlyn married?”</p>
			<p>“Yes, four or five years ago. Very pleasant lady, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Berlyn.”</p>
			<p>“Any children?”</p>
			<p>“No, sir.”</p>
			<p>“Where did they live?”</p>
			<p>“Out along the Buckland road about ten minutes’ walk from the works. Place called Soller. They say it’s the name of some foreign town where he’d met the lady and popped the question, but of course I don’t know anything about that.”</p>
			<p>“Then he was a traveller, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Berlyn?”</p>
			<p>“Yes; used to go away to France and such places when he had holidays.”</p>
			<p>“Wise man,” French commented. “And how did the match turn out?”</p>
			<p>For the first time the sergeant hesitated.</p>
			<p>“There, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> French, you have me. I couldn’t really tell you. From all accounts they got on as well as most people whose tastes differ. He was quiet and liked sitting at home in the evenings, and she wanted a bit of life. There’s not much of what you might call gaiety in this town, as you may guess, but whatever there was <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Berlyn was in the centre of it. At first he used to go out with her to Torquay and so on, but he gradually gave that up and she had to find some one else to go with or stay at home.”</p>
			<p>“And she found some one?”</p>
			<p>“Any number. The gentlemen up at the works, mostly. They were all glad to go with her! Colonel Domlio had been taking her about lately⁠—I mean before <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Berlyn’s death⁠—and before that it was <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Pyke and sometimes <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Cowls, the engineer. She was friends, too, with <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> and <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Lancaster, and I’ve often seen her out with people called Tucker that live close by.”</p>
			<p>All this seemed suggestive to French and his facile brain was already building up tentative theories.</p>
			<p>“Was there ever any suggestion of anything between <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Berlyn and any of those men?”</p>
			<p>“There was a bit of talk at one time, but I don’t believe there was anything in it.”</p>
			<p>“But there was talk. Just tell me what was said.”</p>
			<p>“She was talked about with <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Pyke. They certainly saw a deal of each other at one time. He was constantly at the house and they went out motoring together. She was a top-hole driver.”</p>
			<p>“You say they saw a deal of each other at one time. Did that not continue?”</p>
			<p>“It was supposed to come to an end about four months before the tragedy. But that’s only local gossip and I can’t vouch for it. All the same, I don’t remember seeing them motoring since, except once when <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Pyke’s cousin came for three or four days.”</p>
			<p>“And you have no idea what happened?”</p>
			<p>“No, sir. Some said the lady heard of the talk and thought she had gone far enough; others, that <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Berlyn got wise to it; and others again, that they got tired of each other. I don’t know. Whatever happened, it was all quite amicable, for I’ve seen them together different times since.”</p>
			<p>“And was that the only time there was talk?”</p>
			<p>“After that there was talk about her and Colonel Domlio. But you know, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> French, in a place this size they’re hard up for something to talk about. I don’t believe there was anything in either story.”</p>
			<p>“Tell me what was said anyway.”</p>
			<p>“Well, that she used to go out to see him in the afternoons. The colonel was believed to be very fond of her, but she was only supposed to be amusing herself with him.”</p>
			<p>“You say this took place recently?”</p>
			<p>“That was the rumour.”</p>
			<p>French shrugged.</p>
			<p>“Safety in numbers, Sergeant. I agree it doesn’t sound hopeful. Did <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Berlyn seem upset about it?”</p>
			<p>“Not that I ever heard of.”</p>
			<p>“No good for us, Sergeant. Now about these others. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Pyke was not married, was he?”</p>
			<p>No, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Pyke was not married, nor were <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Cowls nor <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Samuel nor <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Leacock, other young men about the works with whom <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Berlyn had seemed on good terms. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Pyke had been with the firm for several years and was said to be highly thought of. He was pleasant-mannered and jolly and a general favourite. He lodged in the town; in fact, his rooms were nearly opposite the hotel.</p>
			<p>“Is <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Berlyn still here?”</p>
			<p>“She left three or four days ago. There was an auction and she waited till it was over. I heard she had gone to London.”</p>
			<p>“Will she be well off?”</p>
			<p>“I believe so. They say <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Berlyn left her everything.”</p>
			<p>“You spoke of <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Pyke’s cousin. Who is he?”</p>
			<p>“A <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Jefferson Pyke, a farmer in the Argentine. Rather like the late <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Pyke, that’s <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Stanley, in appearance, but a bit taller and broader. He was on a visit to England and was down here twice. First he came and stayed with <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Stanley for three or four days about a couple of months before the tragedy; that was when <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Berlyn took them both out motoring. I wasn’t speaking to him then, but I saw him with <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> and <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Berlyn and <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Stanley in the car. Then the morning after the tragedy <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Berlyn gave me his London address and told me to wire for him. I did so and he came down that evening. He stayed for three or four days in Torquay and came over to make enquiries and to look after <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Stanley’s affairs. A very nice gentleman I found him, and a good business man, too.”</p>
			<p>French noted the London address and then asked what servants the Berlyns had.</p>
			<p>“They had three⁠—two house servants and the gardener.”</p>
			<p>“Any of them available?”</p>
			<p>“One of the girls, Lizzie Johnston, lives not far away. The others were strangers.”</p>
			<p>French continued his inquisitions in his slow, painstaking way, making notes about everyone connected with the Berlyns and Pyke. But he learned nothing that confirmed his suspicions or suggested a line of research. It was true that in <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Berlyn he had glimpsed a possible source of trouble between her husband and Pyke. All the essentials of a triangle drama were there⁠—except the drama itself. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Berlyn might easily have hated her husband and loved one of these other men, but, unfortunately for theorising detectives, if not for moralists, there was no evidence that she had done so. However, it was a suggestive idea and one which could not be lost sight of.</p>
			<p>As these thoughts passed through French’s mind a further consideration struck him, a consideration which he saw might not only prove a fifth test of the case he was trying to make, but which, if so, would undoubtedly be the most conclusive of them all. He turned once more to Daw.</p>
			<p>“There’s a point which is worrying me rather, Sergeant,” he declared. “Suppose one of these two men murdered the other on that night. Now why would the murderer go to the trouble of getting the body into the works and sending it off in the crate? Could he not simply have thrown it into one of these mires?”</p>
			<p>Daw nodded.</p>
			<p>“I thought of that when you suggested your idea, but I don’t believe there’s anything in it. It wouldn’t be so easy as it sounds. In fact, I couldn’t see any way it could be done.”</p>
			<p>“I’m glad to hear you say so, Sergeant. Explain, please.”</p>
			<p>“Well, if you go into one of those places and begin to sink you throw yourself on your back. As long as your weight is on the small area of your feet you go down, but if you increase your area by lying on your back you reduce the weight per unit of area and you float⁠—because it really is a kind of floating. You follow me, sir?”</p>
			<p>“Quite. Go ahead.”</p>
			<p>“Now if you walk to a soft place carrying a body you have doubled the weight on your feet. You will go down quickly. But the body won’t go down. A man who tried to get rid of his victim that way would fail, and lose his own life into the bargain.”</p>
			<p>“That sounds conclusive. But I didn’t know you could save yourself by throwing yourself down. If that is so wouldn’t Berlyn and Pyke have escaped that way? Why did you then accept the idea that they had been lost?”</p>
			<p>“There were two reasons. First there was nothing to make me doubt it, such as knowing about the crate, and secondly, though the accident was not exactly likely, it was possible. This is the way I figured it out. Suppose one of these mists had come on. They do come on unexpectedly. One of the men gets into a soft place. Mists are confusing, and in trying to get out, he mistakes his position and flounders in further. That’s all perfectly possible. Then he calls to the other one, and in going to the first one’s help the other gets in also⁠—both too far to get out again.”</p>
			<p>“But you said it was a clear night?”</p>
			<p>“So it was when I got there. But three or four hours earlier it might have been thick.”</p>
			<p>“Now, Sergeant, there’s another thing. Could the murderer not have used some sort of apparatus, a ladder or plank to lay on the soft ground, over which he could have carried the body and escaped himself? Same as you do on ice.”</p>
			<p>“I thought of that too, but I don’t believe it would be possible. A ladder wouldn’t do at all. With its sharp edges it would go down under the weight. And I don’t think a man could handle a big enough plank. It would have to be pretty wide to support the weight of two men and it would have to be long to get beyond the edge of the mire. You see, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> French, it’s only well out into the big mires that a flat body will sink. Near the edges it would have to be kept upright with the weight on the feet. That couldn’t be done off the end of a plank which would itself be sinking; in fact, I don’t think it could be done at all.”</p>
			<p>French nodded. This was certainly very satisfactory.</p>
			<p>“Besides, sir,” Daw went on, “think of a plank laid as you’ve suggested and with the end of it partly sunk. It’ll not be easy to pull out, particularly when the ground you’re pulling from is not very firm. You won’t do it without leaving pretty deep footmarks, and the plank will leave a sort of trough where it was slid out. If that had been done that night the marks would have been there next morning, and if they had been there I should have seen them. No, sir, I think you may give up that idea. You couldn’t get rid of a body by hiding it in a mire.”</p>
			<p>“I’m uncommonly glad to hear you say so,” French repeated. “If the thing had been possible it would have knocked my case into a cocked hat. Well, Sergeant, I’ve bothered you enough for one morning. I’ll go along and have a word with <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Berlyn’s maid.”</p>
			<p>Lizzie Johnston lived with her mother in a little cottage on the hill behind the railway station. She proved to be a dark, good-looking girl of about five and twenty, and when French talked with her he soon discovered she was observant and intelligent also.</p>
			<p>She had lived, she said, with <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Berlyn for about two years, and French, in his skilful, pleasant way drew her out on the subject of the household. It consisted of the two Berlyns, herself, and cook, unless Peter Swann, the gardener, might be included.</p>
			<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Berlyn she had not greatly liked. He was quiet in the house, but was rather exacting. He was not socially inclined and preferred an evening’s reading over the fire to any dinner party or dance. He had been civil enough to her, though she had really come very little in contact with him.</p>
			<p>About <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Berlyn the girl was not enthusiastic, either, though she said nothing directly against her. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Berlyn, it appeared, was also hard to please, and no matter what was done for her, she always wanted something more. She was never content to be alone and was continually running over to Torquay to amusements. After their marriage <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Berlyn had gone with her, but he had gradually given up doing so and had allowed her to find some other escort. This she had had no difficulty in doing, and <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Pyke, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Cowls and others were constantly in attendance.</p>
			<p>No, the girl did not think there had been anything between <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Berlyn and any of these men, though for a time <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Pyke’s attentions had been rather pronounced. But some four months before the tragedy they appeared to have had a disagreement, for his visits had suddenly fallen off. But it could not have been very serious, for he still had occasionally come to dinner and to play bridge. She remembered one time in particular when <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Pyke had brought a relative; she heard it was a cousin. There were just the four, the two Pykes and the two Berlyns, and they all seemed very friendly. But there was a coolness all the same, and since it had developed, Colonel Domlio had to some extent taken <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Pyke’s place.</p>
			<p>About the Berlyns’ history she could not tell much. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Berlyn had lived in the town for several years before his marriage. He seemed to have plenty of money. He had bought the house on the Buckland road just before the wedding and had had it done up from top to bottom. It was not a large house, but beautifully fitted up. At the same time he had bought the car. Peter Swann, the gardener, washed the car, but he did not drive it. Both <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> and <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Berlyn were expert drivers and good mechanics. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Berlyn also used her push bicycle a good deal.</p>
			<p>French then came to the evening of the tragedy. On that evening dinner had been early to allow <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Berlyn to get away in the car at seven o’clock. It had been her, Lizzie Johnston’s, evening out, but <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Berlyn had told her she would have to take the next evening instead, as some friends were coming in and she would be wanted to bring up supper. About eight o’clock <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Fogden, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Cowls, a <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> and <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Lancaster, and three or four other people had arrived. She had brought them up coffee and sandwiches about half past ten. They had left about eleven. She had got to bed almost at once, and a few minutes later she had heard <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Berlyn go up to her room.</p>
			<p>The next thing she remembered was being wakened in the middle of the night by <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Berlyn. The lady was partly dressed and seemed agitated. “Lizzie,” she had said, “it’s nearly three o’clock and there’s no sign of <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Berlyn. I’m frightened. I’ve just been out to the garage to see if the car has come back, but it’s not there. What do you think can be wrong?”</p>
			<p>They hurriedly discussed the matter. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Berlyn was the last man to alter his plans, and both were afraid of an accident on that dangerous Tavistock road.</p>
			<p>In the end they decided that <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Berlyn should knock up Sergeant Daw, who lived near. This she did, while Lizzie dressed. Presently <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Berlyn came back to say that the sergeant was going out to investigate. They had some tea and lay down without taking off their clothes. In the early morning a policeman brought the news of the tragedy.</p>
			<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Berlyn was terribly upset. But she grew calmer in time, and the arrangements for the auction and for her removal to London taking her out of herself, in a week she was almost normal.</p>
			<p>She had been very nice to Lizzie at the last, giving her an excellent testimonial and an extra month’s wages.</p>
			<p>French thanked the girl for her information and rose as if to take his leave.</p>
			<p>“I suppose <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Berlyn was something of a needlewoman?” he said, carelessly. “Some one told me she made her own dresses.”</p>
			<p>Lizzie laughed contemptuously.</p>
			<p>“Made her dresses, did she?” she repeated. “I don’t think. She didn’t hardly know how to wear a thimble, she didn’t. She wouldn’t have sat down to a job of sewing, not for no person on earth she wouldn’t.”</p>
			<p>“Then who did the household mending?”</p>
			<p>“Yours truly. Anything that was done I had to do.”</p>
			<p>“But not the clothes, surely? Who darned <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Berlyn’s socks, for instance?”</p>
			<p>“Yours truly. I tell you <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Berlyn wouldn’t have touched a sock or a bit of wool not to save her life.”</p>
			<p>This was a piece of unexpected luck. French turned away.</p>
			<p>“You are a good girl,” he declared. “Would half a sovereign be of any use to you?”</p>
			<p>Miss Johnston left him in no doubt on the point.</p>
			<p>“Very well,” he went on. “You come down to the hotel after dinner to-night and ask for me. I want you to mend some clothes and socks for me. Or rather,” he paused, “I have to come up in this direction after lunch to-day in any case, and I’ll bring them.”</p>
			<p>No object in advertising the lines on which he was working, he thought. The less that was known of his researches, the more hope there was of their proving fruitful.</p>
			<p>A couple of hours later he returned with a small suitcase.</p>
			<p>“Here are the clothes,” he said. “I wish you’d see what they want, so that I’ll know when I’m likely to get them.”</p>
			<p>He laid four pairs of socks on the table⁠—three brown pairs of his own and the grey pair found in the crate. The girl looked them over one by one. French watched her in silence. He was anxious, if possible, to give her no lead.</p>
			<p>“There isn’t much wrong with these,” she said, presently. “They don’t want no darning.”</p>
			<p>“Oh, but they have been badly mended. You see these grey ones have been done with a different-coloured wool. I thought perhaps you could put that right.”</p>
			<p>Miss Johnston laughed scornfully.</p>
			<p>“You’re mighty particular, mister, if that darning ain’t good enough for you. I’d just like to know what’s wrong with it.”</p>
			<p>“You think it’s all right?” French returned. “If so, I’m satisfied. But what about these underclothes?”</p>
			<p>The girl examined the clothes. They were almost new and neatly folded, just as they had come back from the laundry, so that her contemptuous reply was not inexcusable. At all events, it was evident that no suspicion that they were other than her visitor’s had crossed her mind.</p>
			<p>French, with his half formed theory of Berlyn’s guilt, would have been surprised if she had answered otherwise. The test, however, had been necessary, and he felt he had not lost time. Mollifying her with a tip, he returned to the hotel.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
