<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>XI: John Gurney, Night Watchman</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-11" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h2 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XI</h2>
				<p epub:type="title">John Gurney, Night Watchman</p>
			</hgroup>
			<p>French had now reconciled the apparent contradiction in regard to one of his four test points. Obviously his next job was to clear up the other three.</p>
			<p>As he considered on which he should first concentrate, his mind fastened on the one point which at the time had seemed not completely satisfactory⁠—the slightly suspicious manner of Gurney, the night watchman. During the night, as he now knew, the body of Stanley Pyke had been taken to the works and put into the crate. It was impossible that this could have been done without Gurney’s knowledge. Gurney must be made to speak.</p>
			<p>Accordingly, after breakfast next morning he set off to the man’s house. He passed out of the town on the Newton Abbot road, then turning into a lane to the left, struck up the side of the valley. Soon he reached the cottage, a tiny place with deep overhanging eaves and creeper-covered walls. In front was a scrap of well-kept garden and in the garden was the man himself.</p>
			<p>“Good morning, Gurney,” French greeted him. “I thought you would have been in bed by now.”</p>
			<p>“I be just going,” answered the old man. “I came out an’ begun a bit o’ weeding an’ the time ran round without my noticing.”</p>
			<p>“That’s lucky for me,” said French, heartily. “I want a word with you. A nice place you’ve got here.”</p>
			<p>“Not too bad, it ain’t,” the other admitted, looking about him with obvious pride. “The soil’s a bit ’eavy, but it don’t do so bad.”</p>
			<p>“Good for your roses, surely? Those are fine ones beside the house.”</p>
			<p>Gurney laid aside his hoe and led the way to the really magnificent bed of La Frances to which French had pointed. It was evident that these were the old man’s passion. French was not a gardener, but he knew enough to talk intelligently on the subject and his appreciation evidently went straight to the watchman’s heart. For some minutes they discussed horticulture, and then French wore gradually round to the object of his visit.</p>
			<p>“Terrible business that about <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Berlyn and <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Pyke,” he essayed. “It must have set this town talking.”</p>
			<p>“It didn’t ’alf, sir. Everyone was sorry for the poor gentlemen. They was well liked, they was.”</p>
			<p>“And that was another terrible affair,” pursued French after the local tragedy had been adequately discussed, “that finding of the dead body in the crate. Extraordinary how the body could have been put in.”</p>
			<p>“I didn’t ’ear naught about that,” Gurney answered, with a sudden increase of interest. “You don’t mean the crate you was speaking about that day you was up at the works?”</p>
			<p>“No other. Keep it to yourself and I’ll tell you about it.” French became deeply impressive. “That crate that I was enquiring about was sent from here to Swansea. There it was called for by a man who took it on a lorry to a place called Burry Port and threw it into the sea. A fisherman chanced to hook it and it was brought ashore more than a month later. And when it was opened the dead body of a man was found inside.”</p>
			<p>“Lord save us! I read in the noospaper about that there body being found, but it fair beats me that the crate came from ’ere, it does.”</p>
			<p>French continued to enlarge on the tale. That Gurney’s surprise was genuine he felt certain. He could have sworn that the man had no inkling of the truth. But he marked, even more acutely than before, a hesitation or self-consciousness that indicated an uneasy mind. There was something; he felt sure of it. He glanced at the man with his shrewd, observant eyes and suddenly determined on directness.</p>
			<p>“Look here, Gurney,” he said. “Come over and sit on this seat. I have something important to say to you.” He paused as if considering his words. “You thought a good deal of your employers, those two poor men who were lost on the moor?”</p>
			<p>“An’ I had reason to. It wasn’t an accident ’appening in the execution of my dooty, as you might say, as made me lame and not fit to work. It was rheumatism, and they could ’ave let me go when I couldn’t work no more. But they found this job for me and they let me the ’ouse cheap. Of course it was <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Berlyn as ’ad the final say, but I know as <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Pyke spoke for me. It wasn’t everyone as would ’ave done that, now was it, sir?”</p>
			<p>Consideration on the part of an employer was not, French knew, to be taken as a matter of course, though it was vastly more common than the unions would have the public believe. But gratitude on the part of an employee was not so frequent, though it was by no means unique. Its exhibition, however, in the present instance confirmed French in the course he was taking.</p>
			<p>“Now, Gurney, do you know who I am?” he went on. “I’m an inspector from Scotland Yard and I’m down here to try to solve these two mysteries. Because, Gurney, do you know what I think? I think that on that night the body of one of these two gentlemen was taken to the works and put into the crate.”</p>
			<p>Gurney started and paled. “Lord save us!” he muttered. “But wot about the accident?”</p>
			<p>“There was no accident,” French replied, sternly. “There was murder. Who committed it, I don’t know at present. Where the other body is, if there is another body, I don’t yet know. But I have no doubt about one of the bodies. It was put into the crate on that night.”</p>
			<p>Gurney moistened his dry lips.</p>
			<p>“But⁠—” he began, and his voice died away into silence.</p>
			<p>“That’s it,” French went on, impressively. “Now, Gurney, I’m not accusing you of anything. But you know something. You needn’t attempt to deny it, because it has been plain to me from the first moment I spoke to you. Come now. Something out of the common took place that night. What was it?”</p>
			<p>Gurney did not deny the charge. Instead he sat motionless, with scared, unhappy eyes. French remained silent also; then he said, quietly:</p>
			<p>“What was it? Were you away from your post that night?”</p>
			<p>“No, sir, not that. I was there all the time,” the other answered, earnestly. Again he paused, then with a sudden gesture he went on: “I didn’t know nothing about what you ’ave been saying, but I see now I must tell you everything, even if I gets the sack over it.”</p>
			<p>“You’ll not get the sack if I can help it,” French said, kindly, “but go on and tell me, all the same.”</p>
			<p>“Well, sir, I did that night wot I never did before nor since. I slept the ’ole night through. I sat down to eat my supper in the boiler-’ouse like I always does, an’ I didn’t remember nothing more till Peter Small ’e was standing there shaking me. ‘Wake up,’ ’e says; ‘you’re a nice sort of a night watchman, you are.’ ‘Lord,’ I says. ‘I never did nothing like that before,’ an’ I asks him not to say nothing about it. An’ ’e didn’t say nothing, nor I didn’t, neither. But now I suppose it’ll come out an’ I’ll get wot for about it.”</p>
			<p>“Don’t you worry about that,” French said, heartily. “I’ll see you through. I’ll undertake to get <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Fogden to overlook this little irregularity on one condition. You must tell me everything that took place that night without exception. Go ahead now and let’s have the whole of it.”</p>
			<p>The old man gazed at him in distress.</p>
			<p>“But there weren’t naught else,” he protested. “I went to sleep, an’ that’s all. If there were anything else took place, w’y I didn’t see it.”</p>
			<p>“That’s all right. Now just answer my questions. Go back to when you left your house. What time was that?”</p>
			<p>“The usual time, about twenty minutes to seven.”</p>
			<p>“You brought your supper with you?”</p>
			<p>“Yes, sir.”</p>
			<p>“Who prepared it?”</p>
			<p>“My wife.”</p>
			<p>“Did you meet anyone on your way to the works?”</p>
			<p>“Well, I couldn’t rightly say. No one that I remember.”</p>
			<p>“No one could have got hold of your supper, anyway?”</p>
			<p>The man started. “You think it might ’ave been tampered with?” he queried. He thought for some moments, then shook his head. “No, sir, I’m afraid not. I don’t never let my basket out o’ my ’and till I gets to the boiler-’ouse.”</p>
			<p>“Very well. Now when you got to the boiler-house?”</p>
			<p>“I put it where I always do, beside one o’ the boilers.”</p>
			<p>“And you left it there?”</p>
			<p>“While I made my rounds, I did. But there wasn’t no one else in the works then.”</p>
			<p>“How do you know?”</p>
			<p>Gurney hesitated. In the last resort he didn’t know. But he had not seen anyone and did not believe anyone had been there.</p>
			<p>“But suppose someone had been hidden in the works,” French persisted. “He could have doctored your supper while you were on your rounds?”</p>
			<p>“If there ’ad been ’e might,” the man admitted. “But I didn’t see no one.”</p>
			<p>“What time do you have your meal?”</p>
			<p>Gurney, it appeared, had two meals during the night. Time hung heavy on his hands and the meals made a break. He had his dinner about <time datetime="18:00">six</time>, started work at <time datetime="19:00">seven</time>, and had his first meal about <time datetime="23:00">eleven</time>. His second meal he had about <time datetime="03:00">three</time>, and he was relieved at <time datetime="06:00">six</time>.</p>
			<p>On the night in question he had his first meal at the usual time. Until then he had felt perfectly normal, but he had scarcely finished when he found himself growing overpoweringly sleepy, and the next thing he remembered was being wakened by the fireman at six the next morning.</p>
			<p>“It’s clear that your supper was doped,” French said. “Now think, did nothing in any way out of the common happen between six and eleven?”</p>
			<p>Gurney began a denial, then stopped.</p>
			<p>“There were one thing,” he said, slowly, “but I don’t believe as ’ow it could have ’ad anything to do with it. A little before ten there were a ring at the office door. I went to open, but there weren’t no one there. I didn’t think naught of it, because children do ring sometimes just by way o’ mischief. But there weren’t no children there so far as I could see.”</p>
			<p>“How far is this door that you opened from the boiler-house?”</p>
			<p>“At t’other end o’ the building. Two ’undred yards, maybe.”</p>
			<p>“Is that the only door?”</p>
			<p>“No, sir, there be a gate near the boilers for lorries, but people going to the office use the other.”</p>
			<p>“Is the large gate locked at night?”</p>
			<p>“Yes, sir.”</p>
			<p>“Who keeps the key?”</p>
			<p>“I do. There’s a key in the office that any o’ the gentlemen can get if they wants, but I carry one with me.”</p>
			<p>For some moments French sat thinking, then a fresh point struck him.</p>
			<p>“What did your supper consist of on that night?”</p>
			<p>“Tea an’ bread an’ butter and a slice o’ meat. I have a can o’ tea. I leave it on the boiler and it keeps ’ot.”</p>
			<p>“You mean that you don’t make your tea separately for each meal? You drink some out of the can at the first meal and finish what is left at the second?”</p>
			<p>“That’s right, sir.”</p>
			<p>“And the same with food?”</p>
			<p>“Yes, sir.”</p>
			<p>“Now on the night we’re talking about you had only one meal. You slept through the time of the second. What happened to the tea and food that was left over?”</p>
			<p>“We ’ad it for breakfast, my wife an’ I.”</p>
			<p>“That is what I wanted to get at. Now did either of you feel sleepy after breakfast?”</p>
			<p>A mixture of admiration and wonder showed in the old man’s eyes.</p>
			<p>“Why, no, we didn’t, an’ that’s a fact,” he said in puzzled tones. “An’ we should ’ave if so be as wot you think is true.”</p>
			<p>This looked like a snag, but French reminded himself that at the moment he was only getting information and his theorising could wait till later. He continued his questions, but without learning much more.</p>
			<p>“Now, Gurney,” he said at last, “under no circumstances are you to mention what we have been speaking of⁠—not to your wife nor to <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Fogden nor to anyone. You understand?”</p>
			<p>“I understand, sir, right enough.”</p>
			<p>“Very good. Now I’m anxious to go into this matter further, and I’ll call at the works tonight.”</p>
			<p>“Right, sir. I’ll be on the lookout.”</p>
			<p>It was dark as French rang at the big gate of the works. Gurney soon appeared at the wicket and French followed him across the yard to the boiler-house, a distance of perhaps forty yards. It was a fair-sized shed, housing five Babcock &amp; Wilcox water-tube boilers with mechanical stokers and the usual stoker engines and pumps. On a ledge of the warm brickwork near one of the ash openings stood the old man’s can of tea, and his basket of food was placed on the repair bench close by. French took in these details and then said:</p>
			<p>“I want now to try an experiment. Will you lend me your key of the wicket. I will go out, lock the wicket behind me, and go round to the office door and ring. When you hear the ring you go and open. Repeat everything exactly as you did that night so as to get back here at the same time. In the meantime I shall let myself in again by the wicket and see if I should have time to dope your tea and get away again before you appear. You understand?”</p>
			<p>This program was carried out. French went out and rang at the office door, then ran round to the large gate, let himself in through the wicket, found the can of tea, opened it and counted ten, closed it and relocked the wicket. Then he began to time. Three minutes passed before Gurney appeared.</p>
			<p>So that was all right. Anyone who had access to the key in the office could have doctored the watchman’s food. Moreover, the fact that the Gurneys had breakfasted without ill effect on the remainder was not such a difficulty as French had at first supposed. The criminal might have doped the tea on his first visit and during his second poured away what was over and replaced it with fresh. In fact, if he were to preserve his secret he must have done so. The discovery of the drugging would have started an enquiry which might have brought to light the whole plot.</p>
			<p>Though French was enthusiastic about his discovery, he saw that it involved one disconcerting point. What about the theory of Berlyn’s guilt? The ring at the office door had come shortly before ten. But shortly before ten Berlyn was at Tavistock. Therefore some other person was involved. Was this person the murderer and had he made away with Berlyn as well as Pyke? Or was he Berlyn’s accomplice? French inclined to the latter supposition. In considering the timing of the car he had seen that it could have been used to carry the body to the works provided an accomplice was ready to drive it back to the moor without delay. On the whole, therefore, it looked as if the murder was the work of two persons, of whom Berlyn was one.</p>
			<p>But whether principal or accomplice, it was at least certain that the man who had drugged Gurney’s food knew the works intimately and had access to the key in the office. Only a comparatively small number of persons could fill these requirements and he should, therefore, be quickly found.</p>
			<p>Well pleased with his day’s work, French returned to the hotel and spent the remainder of the evening in writing up his diary.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
