<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>V: Messrs. Berlyn and Pyke</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-5" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h2 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">V</h2>
				<p epub:type="title"><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Messrs.</abbr> Berlyn and Pyke</p>
			</hgroup>
			<p>Shortly before <time datetime="18:00">six o’clock that evening</time> French stepped out of the train at the little terminus of Ashburton.</p>
			<p>He had enjoyed his run, particularly the latter portion through the charming South Devonshire scenery, along the coast under the red cliffs of Dawlish and Teignmouth, and then inland through the well-wooded hills of Newton Abbot and Totnes. He was pleased, too, with the appearance of Ashburton, a town T-shaped in plan and squeezed down into the narrow valleys between three hills. He admired its old world air and its pleasant situation as he walked up the street to the Silver Tiger, the hotel to which he had been recommended.</p>
			<p>After a leisurely dinner he went out for a stroll, ending up shortly after dark at the police station. Sergeant Daw had gone home, but a constable was despatched for him and presently he turned up.</p>
			<p>“I went to the works at once, sir,” he explained in answer to French’s question. “They’re out at the end of North Street. A big place for so small a town. They employ a hundred or more men and a lot of women and girls. A great benefit to the town, sir.”</p>
			<p>“And whom did you see?”</p>
			<p>“I saw <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Fogden, the sales manager. He turned up the information without delay. The duplicator was ordered from London and he showed me the letter. You can see it if you go up tomorrow. There was nothing out of the way about the transaction. They packed the machine and sent it off, and that was all they could tell me.”</p>
			<p>Suspiciously like a wild-goose chase, thought French as he chatted pleasantly with the sergeant. Like his confrère at Burry Port, the man seemed more intelligent and better educated than most rural policemen. They discussed the weather and the country for some time and then French said:</p>
			<p>“By the way, Sergeant, the name of this Veda Works seemed vaguely familiar when you telephoned it. Has it been in the papers lately or can you explain how I should know it?”</p>
			<p>“No doubt, sir, you read of the sad accident we had here about six weeks ago⁠—a tragedy, if I may put it so. Two of the gentlemen belonging to the works⁠—<abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Berlyn, the junior partner, and <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Pyke, the travelling representative⁠—lost their lives on the moor. Perhaps you recall it, sir?”</p>
			<p>Of course! The affair now came back to French. So far as he could recall the circumstances, the two men had been driving across Dartmoor at night, and while still several miles from home their car had broken down. They had attempted to reach the house of a friend by crossing a bit of the moor, but in the dark they had missed their way, and getting into one of the soft “mires,” had been sucked down and lost.</p>
			<p>“I read of it, yes. Very sad thing. Unusual, too, was it not?”</p>
			<p>“Yes, sir, for those who live about here know the danger and they don’t go near these doubtful places at night. But animals sometimes get caught. I’ve seen a pony go down myself, and I can tell you, sir, I don’t wish to see another. It was a slow business, and the worse the creature struggled the tighter it got held. But when it comes to human beings it’s a thing you don’t like to think about.”</p>
			<p>“That’s a fact, Sergeant. By the way, it’s like a dream to me that I once met those two gentlemen. I wish you’d describe them.”</p>
			<p>“They were not unlike so far as figure and build were concerned; about five feet nine or five feet ten in height, I should say, though <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Berlyn was slightly the bigger man. But their colouring was different. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Berlyn had a high colour and blue eyes and reddish hair, while <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Pyke was sallow, with brown eyes and hair.”</p>
			<p>“Did <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Berlyn wear glasses?” French asked, with difficulty keeping the eagerness out of his voice.</p>
			<p>“No, sir. Neither of them did that.”</p>
			<p>“I don’t think they can be the men I met. Well, I’ll go up and see this <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Fogden in the morning. Good night, Sergeant.”</p>
			<p>“Good night, sir. If there’s anything I can do I take it you’ll let me know.”</p>
			<p>But French next morning did not go to the office equipment works. Instead he took an early bus to Torquay, and calling at the local office of the <i epub:type="se:name.publication.newspaper">Western Morning News</i>, asked to see their recent files. These he looked over, finally buying all the papers which contained any reference to the tragic deaths of <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Messrs.</abbr> Berlyn and Pyke.</p>
			<p>He had no suspicions in the matter except that here was a disappearance of two persons about the time of the murder, one of whom answered to the description of the man who had called for the crate. No one appeared to doubt their death on the moor, but⁠—their bodies had not been found. French wished to know what was to be known about the affair before going to the works, simply to be on the safe side.</p>
			<p>He retired to the smoking room of the nearest hotel and began to read up his papers. At once he discovered a fact which he thought deeply significant. The tragedy had taken place on the night of <time datetime="1927-08-15">Monday, the 15th August</time>. And it was on the following day, <time datetime="1927-08-16">Tuesday, the 16th</time>, that the crate had been despatched from Ashburton.</p>
			<p>The case was exhaustively reported, and after half an hour’s reading French knew all that the reporters had gleaned. Briefly, the circumstances were as follow:</p>
			<p>Charles Berlyn, as has been said, was junior partner of the firm. He was a man of about forty and he looked after the commercial side of the undertaking. Stanley Pyke was an engineer who acted as technical travelling representative, a younger man, not more than five and thirty. Each had a high reputation for character and business efficiency.</p>
			<p>It happened that for some time previous to the date in question the Urban District Council of Tavistock had been in communication with the Veda Works relative to the purchase of filing cabinets and other office appliances for their clerk. There had been a hitch in the negotiations and <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Berlyn had arranged to attend the next meeting of the council in the hope of settling the matter. As some of the council members were farmers, busy during that season in the daytime, the meeting was held in the evening. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Berlyn arranged to motor over, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Pyke accompanying him.</p>
			<p>The two men left the works at half past five, their usual hour. Each dined early and they set out in <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Berlyn’s car about seven. They expected to reach Tavistock at eight, at which hour the meeting was to begin. After their business was finished they intended to call on a mill owner just outside Tavistock in connection with a set of loose-leaf forms he had ordered. The mill owner was a personal friend of <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Berlyn’s and they intended to spend the evening with him, leaving about eleven and reaching home about midnight.</p>
			<p>This program they carried out faithfully, at least in its earlier stages. They reached Tavistock just as the meeting of the Urban Council was beginning, and settled the business of the office appliances. Then they went on to the mill owner’s, arranged about the loose-leaf forms, and sat chatting over cigars and drinks until shortly before eleven. At precisely ten-fifty they set off on their return journey, everything connected with them being perfectly normal and in order.</p>
			<p>They were never seen again.</p>
			<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Berlyn went to bed at her ordinary time, but, waking up shortly before three and finding that <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Berlyn had not returned, she immediately grew anxious. It was so unlike him to fail to carry out his plans that his absence suggested disaster. She hastily put on some clothes and went out to the garage, and on finding that the car was not there she woke the servant and said she was going to the police. Without waiting for the girl to dress, she went out and knocked up Sergeant Daw at his little cottage.</p>
			<p>Though the sergeant did his best to reassure her, he was by no means easy in his own mind. The road from Tavistock to Ashburton is far from safe, especially for night motoring. It is terribly hilly and winding and at night extraordinarily deserted. An accident might easily happen and in such lonely country, hours might pass before its discovery.</p>
			<p>The sergeant at once called a colleague and the two men started off on motor bicycles to investigate. About eight miles out on the moor they came to <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Berlyn’s car standing close up to the side of the road, as if drawn out of the way of passing traffic. It was heavily coated with dew and looked as if it had been there for hours. The engine and radiator were cold and there was no sign of either of its occupants.</p>
			<p>At the side of the road was a patch of gravelly soil mixed with peat, and across it, leading from the road out over the moor, were two lines of footsteps. The prints were not sufficiently sharp to give detailed impressions, but the sergeant had no doubt as to whom they belonged. He tried to follow them over the moor, but the grass was too rough to allow of this.</p>
			<p>But he soon realised what had happened. Three-quarters of a mile across the moor, in the direction in which the footsteps pointed, lived the senior partner of the Veda Company, Colonel Domlio. His was the only house in the neighbourhood, and it was, therefore, natural that if from a breakdown of the car or other reason the travellers had got into difficulties, they should go to him for help. But the house was not approached from the road on which they were travelling. The drive started from that which diverged at Two Bridges and led northwards to Moretonhampstead. To have gone round by the road would, therefore, have meant a walk of nearly five miles, whereas fifteen minutes would have taken them across the moor. It was evident that they had adopted the latter course.</p>
			<p>And therein lay their fate. Some quarter of a mile from the road were a number of those treacherous, vivid green areas of quagmire, to stumble into which is to run the risk of a horrible death. They were not quite in the direct line to the house, but in one of the mists which come up so frequently and unexpectedly it would not have been difficult for the men to lose their way. The sergeant at once knocked up Colonel Domlio, only to learn that he had not seen or heard of either.</p>
			<p>When the car was examined, the cause of the stoppage was discovered. A short circuit had developed in the magneto, which interfered with the sparking to such an extent that the cylinder charges could not be ignited.</p>
			<p>French was a good deal disappointed by the account. He had hoped that he was onto the solution of his problem, but now he doubted it. That Berlyn had murdered Pyke and sent off his body in the crate had seemed at first sight a promising theory. But French could see no evidence of foul play in the story. It read merely as a straightforward narrative of an unfortunate mishap.</p>
			<p>At the same time the coincidence of the dates was remarkable and French felt that he could not dismiss the matter from his mind until he had satisfied himself that it really was the accident for which it had been taken.</p>
			<p>He wondered if any tests were possible, and gradually four considerations occurred to him.</p>
			<p>First, there was the breakdown of the car. If the breakdown had been an accident the whole affair was almost certainly an accident, for he did not think it possible that advantage could have been taken of an unexpected incident to commit the murder. The details of the disposal of the crate had been too well worked out to have been improvised. But if the breakdown had been faked it meant foul play.</p>
			<p>Secondly, a valuable check in all such investigations was the making of a timetable. French felt sure that if murder had been committed the car must have gone from Tavistock to the works and back to where it was found. If not, he did not see how the body could have been taken to the works. Probably, also, it had waited at the works while the murderer was substituting the body for the duplicator. Then the radiator must have been hot when the car was abandoned, and it was cold when Sergeant Daw arrived on the scene. If French could find out how long all these operations would have taken he might find that they could not have been carried out in the time available.</p>
			<p>Thirdly, French wondered if in a place of the size of the Veda Works there was no night watchman, and if there was, how the contents of the crate could have been changed without his knowledge.</p>
			<p>Lastly, there was the question of the disposal of the duplicator. Assuming that murder had been done, it was extremely probable that the murderer had found the duplicator packed in the crate. How could he have got rid of so heavy and cumbrous an object?</p>
			<p>If these four points were investigated French thought he would obtain sufficient information to settle the main question. It was, therefore, with a second line of enquiries in his mind that he returned to Ashburton and walked out to the Veda Works.</p>
			<p>These stood a short distance beyond the town at the end of North Street, and formed a rather imposing collection of buildings, small but modern and well designed. The principal block was of five stories, showing narrow pilasters of cream-coloured concrete separating wide glazed panels. The remaining buildings were single-storey sheds. The place seemed spotlessly clean and tidy.</p>
			<p>French entered a door labelled “Office,” and sending in his private card, asked for <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Fogden. He was shown into a comfortably furnished room in which a youngish man with a pleasant face sat at a table desk.</p>
			<p>“Good afternoon, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> French. Won’t you sit down? What can I do for you, sir?”</p>
			<p>“I should explain first who I am, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Fogden.” French handed over his official card. “I have called on business which has already been brought to your notice by the local sergeant. It is about the crate which was sent by your firm to <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> James <abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">B.</abbr> Stephenson at the <abbr epub:type="z3998:initialism">G.</abbr> <abbr epub:type="z3998:initialism">W.</abbr> Goods Station at Swansea.”</p>
			<p>“I saw the sergeant when he called,” <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Fogden answered, a trifle shortly. “That was yesterday, and I gave him all the information at my disposal.”</p>
			<p>“So he told me, sir.” French’s manner was very suave. “My troubling you on the same business, therefore, requires a little explanation. I must ask you, however, to consider what I have to tell you confidential. That crate which you sent to Swansea was duly called for. It eventually reached Burry Port. There it was opened⁠—by the police. And do you know what was found in it?”</p>
			<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Fogden stared at the other with a rapidly growing interest.</p>
			<p>“Good Heavens!” he cried. “You surely don’t mean to say that it contained that body that we have been reading so much about in the papers recently?”</p>
			<p>French nodded.</p>
			<p>“That’s it, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Fogden. So you will see now that it’s not idle curiosity which brings me here. The matter is so serious that I must go into it personally. I shall have to investigate the entire history of that crate.”</p>
			<p>“By Jove! I should think so. You don’t imagine, I take it, that the body was in it when it left the works?”</p>
			<p>“I don’t, but of course I can’t be sure. I must investigate all the possibilities.”</p>
			<p>“That is reasonable.” <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Fogden paused, then continued: “Now tell me what you want me to do and I will carry out your wishes as well as I can. I have already explained to the sergeant that the crate contained a Veda Number Three duplicator, a special product of the firm’s, and that it was ordered by this <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Stephenson in a letter written from the Euston Hotel. I can turn up the letter for you.”</p>
			<p>“Thank you, I should like to see the letter, but as a matter of fact I should like a good deal more. I am afraid I must follow the whole transaction right through and interview everyone who dealt with it.”</p>
			<p>“I get you. Right. I’ll arrange it. Now first as to the letter.”</p>
			<p>He touched the bell and ordered a certain file to be brought him. From this he took out a letter and passed it to French.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
